Problems of a mobile health-care assistant development

Health is one of the most vital factors in a living creature and represents
the level of a complex system, e.g., the ability to think, communicate, and support
other tasks of self-managing. In a modern society there are different institutions,
which provide options to support  mental and physical health of human beings.
However, given prices for urgent health-service or the fact, that sometimes you
have to wait for 3 days to get antibiotics for a pink-eye, make the opportunity
to have a personal doctor in your home or better inside a pocket is desirable. Having a
mobile application, which is capable to detect whether person has a fever, because
he/she gets a cold and recommends a suitable treatment, saves money and time for the
patient and can contribute to doctors' time by decreasing a load. Nevertheless,
factors like cyberchondria, lack of possibilities to collect data, and influence
of pharmaceutical companies on developing of such app to recommend "right" drugs,
can be key in creating a mobile assistant.

Cyberchondria is a raise of health anxiety based on knowledge about common symptoms
in rare and fatal diseases and is considered as a growing concern among
health-care institutions. As any other AI a possible mobile health-care assistant
requires an access to data to work with. Since number of diseases have same symptoms,
to decrease the range of possible illnesses, the manager might ask human about some
symptoms, which can influence on person's opinion and his/her own perception. That
can leads to a wrong diagnose. Such situation give a rise to another problem,
concerning the ways of data collection.

Despite that mobile devices like smart watches, mobile phones and other have
different sensors to measure a heart rate or a sleep pattern,
in addition to questionaries, it might be still not enough to set the right
diagnose, since a lot of diseases require special technology like MRI or human
assisting to check if there is a pus in a throat. However, even if it is possible
to detect a right diseases and suggest medication, there might be a problem
of a bias in selecting "right" treatments.

Unfortunately, some companies are much more interested in getting a profit, rather
than in a society development. Some pharmaceutical companies might see mobile
health-care agent as a way to distribute and advertise drugs which are interesting
for their purpose. For example hypothesis testing or just simple getting more profit,
by suggesting more expensive drugs. It is important to notice that such actions
might effect a moral part of a society, since it is easier to give drugs for a
test to some id from a huge system, rather than to a real person.

On the first glance mobile health-care assistant looks like a wonderful and very
appealing idea. However, there are number of pivotal points, which require a lot
of work. An obvious one is a problem of creating a portable AI, which is
able to collect sufficient amount of information to predict a right diagnose,
without involving of a medical specialist and specific tools like MRI and other.
Another problem is much dangerous for the society in general is that some companies
might use a mobile manager to spread "right" drugs as suggested for treatment for
companies' own sake.
