After reading the “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence”, there are few points that are necessary to point out. 
Firstly, there is no doubt that artificial intelligence has changed people’s lives dramatically. From calculators to computers, AI has helped human race to increase working efficiency and decrease risks that are associated with many tasks. This is one of the points this study has left out – the goal and reason of developing and using AI. Because of this goal, I disagree with study’s view point that AI should eventually replace jobs rather than just tasks. Many “cognitive” jobs we have today not only uses hard qualitative data, but also uses human intuition to make the best decisions. Sometimes one makes good decisions and other times not so good. Though it is correct to say that with Machine Learning, AIs could make better judgements and decisions based on factual information, it is also true that many decisions should be made by some level of emotion. Emotion is one of the gifts to human beings that machines cannot learn. Thus, a better combination would be using AI as assistance to human beings to generalize multiple outcomes based on facts and let humans make the final decisions. Therefore, a goal of increasing work efficiency may be achieved.
Secondly, although the report did make an effort in arguing that earning the public trust is very important in implementing AI into people’s daily lives, it fails to elaborate more steps that need to be taken to earn public trust. One option is through creating positive media image and therefore influencing people’s perspectives. To the general public, when AI is mentioned, first several things that jump into their minds are most likely sophisticated and human-like robots, and the movie “The Terminator”, both of which can induce fear for AI. Therefore, a small effort can be made by making movies that reflect positively on human-like robots and then expand general public’s knowledge of AI into a broader definition rather than a “human-like robot.” 
Thirdly, although using AI in transportation sounds very promising, there are still many regulation problems besides the ones mentioned in the report that we need to concur. One of the concern is that of the Drivers’ License. If cars become fully automatic, what should the minimum driving age be? Will we lower the standards for acquiring a Driver’s License? One may argue that we should not lower the standards because under specific situations, driver may and should be able to switch to non-automatic -driving. However, that poses a paradox because the reason we have auto-drive cars are to minimize driving risks. If we choose to ignore this logic problem, there is another problem: will drivers’ driving skills decrease because of auto-driving cars which will in turn further increase the risk of driving? Therefore we shall conclude that cars shall be either fully-self-drive or fully-non-self-drive. However, it order for that to happen, self-driven cars should stay in labs until it is completely developed and has gone through every possible road condition so that the “driver” will never need to self-pilot the car. 
In a nutshell, though there are good intensions in using AI, it may still cause many problems, foreseen and unforeseen.
