HW 1
	Public Safety and Security has been one of the most controversial topics in regard to Artificial Intelligence. Specifically, in movies and news, Artificial Intelligence has been portrayed as dangerous to the human population and that human’s privacy will be violated with the increase in Artificial Intelligence in all machines across the world. From the Stanford article, it says that federal agencies have already began to deploy AI technologies in border administration and law enforcement. With the increases in AI in security and surveillance, the thought of those technologies getting into the wrong hands is scary. Human bias with surveillance could be deadly to our society and all other countries just living in peace. Using surveillance on other countries could cause internal problems between humans and humans.

	My main critique from the Stanford article is the statement that AI will create new jobs. and that everyone should be entitled to a portion of the world’s AI-produced treasures. I agree in the fact that AI will create some new kinds of jobs but the proportion of new jobs that will be created will be significantly less than the number of jobs that will be destroyed by AI technologies. Robotics and AI specifically are made to make certain processes easier for humans. Easier transportation, easier to get an education, easier to receive treatment from healthcare. Increases in all these areas and the other areas of AI will remove tons of jobs from the economy. As the professor said in class, that most of the class has already taken an online course in AI so why are taking another AI course that’s not online if you already learned the concepts. Teacher’s, Road Worker’s, Truck driver’s, Bus driver’s, and more jobs will diminish all from the market with few new jobs opening in those industries. Also, an increase in home robots will be able to help with tasks around the house which will eliminate a large variety of different jobs.
	
	My belief is that some new jobs will still be created with the destruction of so many jobs. Most of the new jobs that will be created will be in the field of maintaining Artificial Intelligence Systems. There will continue to be new situations or problems that AI will encounter in the future, so there will have to be more jobs to analyze the AI systems and react to changes and problems quickly. People will have to learn new skills because most of the new jobs will be in different industries than what they are familiar with or got a degree in. The decrease in jobs might even decrease the choices of majors at colleges.

	Finally, another statement from the article that I disagree with was that everyone should be entitled to a portion of the world’s AI-produced treasures. I believe that everyone who ends up should get some amount of financial compensation. There is no way to evenly distribute the wealth that AI technologies will create. Also, in our current economy there is no regulations in place of wealth distributions from AI technologies. Also, when a new technology is created, there is no competition will other companies so the cost of using AI technologies to be very expensive to start off with. This will end up being a large debate between the inventor’s behind the AI technologies and the rest of the population.
