About Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, I have two   aspects want to challenge.
The first aspect I want to argue is the security problem. Is Using AI technologies on the public safety no risk at all? It is true that the AI technologies can significantly improve the ability of detecting crime and reduce the innocent people get misunderstood. Al technologies can rarely make mistakes with appropriate algorithm. However, what if the AI technologies get hacked? For example, many police departments are using drones to maintain security. If the drones which are executing tasks get hacked, then they will be flying bombs manipulated by villains. What I want to indicate is how to make sure the AI technologies cannot be hacked or what to do with the rebellious AI. In addition, the technologies that companies and governments using today are not invulnerable. Hackers always can find bugs to hack. It is not very difficult to hear some news like cyberattack causing social security and personal information exposure or government website being hacked. It means AI technologies companies still need to put effort to improve the safety of AI technologies. Otherwise the AI technologies, which are supposed to help human to maintain security, will be a potential threaten to society.
The next aspect I want to argue is employment. As the growth of AI technologies, more and more jobs can be replaced by AI technologies. For example, auto-driving will take place of transportation industry and robots will take place of assembly industry. The low skill jobs will disappear in the future and the people who are with these kinds of jobs will lose their jobs. Moreover, with the growth of deep learning, more and more high skill jobs can also be taken over. For example, lawyers, which need to spend several years and a lot of energy to be, is possible to be replaced by robots. For these human lawyers and other workers, losing jobs is just one of the problems for them. When many of them find what they strive for a very long time can be taken place by AI technologies, they will be disappointed. How to make these people to treat the appearance of AI technologies with open-mind attitude will be a problem need to be solved. On the other hand, this report states the appearance of AI technologies can create new kinds of jobs. In this way, it seems like the people who losing jobs can fit in the new kind of jobs. However, the new kinds of jobs are appeared with new mode of interaction. The new mode of interaction may not be suitable for everyone, especially to the people who are too late to learn new mode of interaction. Many elder people cannot adapt the new mode of working environment because they have already lost the abilities to learn new knowledge. Therefore, how to make the transition smooth for the human is a challenge for the AI technology enterprises. 
The AI technologies are so innovative that these technologies will change every side of human`s life. People should be aware of these variations and figure out ways to deal with every result may happen.
