	The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence outlines significant transformations that society may see due to advancements in the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). One important part of the study was the economic effects of AI’s potential progress, particularly on low-resource communities. The study claims that low-resource communities would reap the benefits of AI through to improved food distribution and improved spread of health care information.  However, the study failed to directly address the specific economic concerns of low-resource communities and to take in to account the potential risk AI presents if future progress widens economic inequality.	The study claims that advancements in AI will be of great benefit to low-resource communities through improvements in health care and distribution of food and such improvements would indeed impact the quality of life of people in such communities.  However, such benefits as these do not represent a significant improvement in quality of life in comparison to the potential advantages reaped by those outside of low-resource communities.  The disparity becomes clear when considering that the improvement for one community could potentially be driverless cars and the improvement in low-resource communities could potentially be access to proper health care or food distribution.  Furthermore, the study postulates that these improvements will only be seen with a significant amount of research and focus on improving low-resource communities.  The study also admits that AI advancements have not traditionally been focused on low-resource communities.  Therefore, such advances seem unlikely and could potentially take years to come to fruition without added incentives. 	One of the main points made by the study when referencing potential economic concerns is that AI will create jobs and new categories of employment and therefore AI would not drastically alter the economy. The study does recognize that as job requirements fluctuate people may lose their “cognitive” jobs and such job loss will likely affect all sectors of human jobs.   To mitigate such effects, the study suggests that “education, re-training, and inventing new goods” could potentially help (Stone et al., 39).  The problem with this type of solution is that people living in low-resource communities don’t have the same access to the required education and training and therefore aren’t able take advantage of these prospective new jobs.  Consequently, the job loss the could be experienced would not be outweighed by potential new job creation leaving low-income communities with less job opportunities.  Furthermore, with less job opportunities access to the benefits of AI and the increase in living standards will also not be experienced in these communities.	In conclusion, the One Hundred Year Study succeeds as a comprehensive report of the current state of AI and the potential advances society can expect to see.  However, the study fails to recognize the significant and unique challenges that such advantages present to low-resource and underprivileged communities.  The effects of such progression leave these communities in danger of a widening economic inequality gap despite apparent advances that would benefit members of such communities.  The potential widening of the inequality gap represents a cycle whereby members of these communities would not have access to the economic advantages of AI and therefore not able to take advantage of the full benefits of such progression. REFERENCESPeter Stone, Rodney Brooks, Erik Brynjolfsson, Ryan Calo, Oren Etzioni, Greg Hager, Julia Hirschberg, Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan, Ece Kamar, Sarit Kraus, Kevin Leyton-Brown, David Parkes, William Press, AnnaLee Saxenian, Julie Shah, Milind Tambe, and Astro Teller.  "Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030." One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence: Report of the 2015-2016 Study Panel, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, September 2016. Doc: http://ai100.stanford.edu/2016-report. Accessed:  September 11, 2017.