	With the rapid advancements in the field of Artificial Intelligence it is no surprise that Stanford has created a study panel to summarize the latest advancements as well as discuss possible impact of these advancements in Artificial Intelligence.  Of course, the fact that this study panel is comprised with some of the most intelligent and qualified individuals from many different fields makes it difficult to challenge their ideas on the future of Artificial Intelligence. The study brings up many good points and predictions for the future of the technology used in self driving cars, but the estimation of when self-driving cars will be widely accepted and the absence of discussion on the lack of need and desire of this technology which will limit its acceptance and use is something that I do not agree with. The possible small market for self-driving cars will prolong the wait for when this technology will be widely used by the population. 
	The idea of everyone switching over from the cars which we use and drive today to new self-driving cars may seem like an obvious and logical change that everyone should make. Even the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence stated that self-driving cars could be widely used by the year 2020.  Unfortunately, the study panel may not have considered the desire and need for this new technology when using this estimation in their report. The idea that self-driving cars will be widely used and accepted in only a few short years implies that this technology is needed by vast amount of people for transportation. A self-driving car will be considered as more of a luxury item rather than a need due to the cost associated with buying and maintaining a new car along with the fact that we already have many different cheap types of transportation. This cost may cause many to wait on making the switch to the new automated vehicles. Another factor that may slow the overall switch to these new automobiles is the lack of desire for these new vehicles. Many individuals do not want a self-driving car because they enjoy the experience of driving and maintaining their cars. The more advanced technology that’s used in self-driving vehicles along with this technology being added to mostly electric cars will limit the amount of people who will want to buy these vehicles in the future.  
	The high cost associated with switching vehicles along with the low need and desire for self-driving cars will limit the number of individuals that will purchase these vehicles. The fact that in late 2017 companies are still not mass producing completely self-driving cars and policies permitting the use of self-driving cars are still being worked on, 2020 is looking like an unrealistic estimation. The absence of this discussion in the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence is surprising and should be considered when creating the next report. It will take many years for a need and desire for these vehicles to grow as well as create and implement policies involving this new technology. It is inevitable that the use of self-driving cars will eventually be widely accepted and used by many whether for personal or public use, but not for many years. 