	Artificial Intelligence is undoubtedly the most discussed topic in science field nowadays. Eric Horvitz, the then president of the Association for the Advancement of the Artificial Intelligence, once convened a scholar meeting which assembled experts in artificial intelligence and from other fields such as cognitive science, philosophy and law. They worked together to discuss advancement of artificial intelligence and its development in other areas with concerns of ethical and legal issues (Report of the 2015 Study Panel, September 2016). Artificial Intelligence has already drawn attentions from experts in most areas not just computer science. 	As stated in “Artificial intelligence and life in 2030”, artificial intelligence is becoming to construct a more effective way to collaborate and interact with people and intend to build a better life for human. However, Artificial Intelligence may not always be the solution for issues such as employment, education and security. 	Applying artificial intelligence technology into people’s daily life will bring a tremendous transformation of the whole employment market. A large number of traditional occupations are likely to be replaced by artificial intelligence technology such as janitors, security guards and workers on the assembly lines. Such rather simple tasks are going to be gradually replaced by artificial intelligence technology. Even though artificial intelligence technology will spur new jobs, whether the number of new jobs created by AI covers the loss in the number of traditional jobs is yet to be known. In additional, new jobs inspired by AI technology requires employers to possess brand new skills and knowledge in order to finish their jobs, so those new job positions are likely to go through a period with an absence of qualifying employers, while there will still be a number of unemployed people because of artificial intelligence. With a decreasing in employment rate, there is going to be an unavoidable social issues arise. 	Since artificial intelligence might require employers to possess new knowledge and skill to be eligible for new jobs spurred by AI technology, education is another important area that AI involved in. Transition from traditional classroom to artificial intelligence driven one might require a period time in which some students might find it difficult to get accommodate to, thus end up with a decrease in grades. In addition, AI is not as good as human beings when encounter with ethical issues, so high quality education still requires real human to teach student knowledge and life. 	Furthermore, artificial intelligence may provide more advanced method to distinguish crime such as cybercrime, but it sometime still can be vulnerable. Artificial Intelligence is computer program that are coded by human, which means hackers can still seek for vulnerability in the system and gain control over it. For example, if hackers override the AI program that is used to monitor cybercrime such as credit card fraud, they can easily commit crime without any supervision. Additionally, if people put too much faith into the capability of AI as security system, once it is down, they have no other method to track criminals.	