	The first report of Stanford One Hundred Year Study went in depth about the extensive benefits of Artificial Intelligence 15 years from now. The panel concluded that AI will have a positive impact on many fields including transportation and security. However, the paper underestimates some of the many financial and social issues that will prevent private vehicles from replacing public transportation and slow down the incorporation of AI into security cameras around the city.  
       The Stanford paper predicts that with improvements of artificial intelligence in transportation the need of public transportation will be replaced with shared transportation or by other services that provide a vehicle to deliver them to the destination. However, the paper fails to consider the financial issues that keeps individuals dependent on public transportation. Many people will be deterred from sharing vehicles because it would still require the passengers to pay for parking in the city. With rising parking fees, due to an increased demand, there will be a larger incentive to use public over private vehicles. The paper also over estimates how much people will value using automatic cars over public transportation due to convenience. Public transportation will be more appealing than self driving cars due to the ability to avoid the rush hour grid lock. According to American Public Transportation Association, last year public transportations gave 10.4 billion rides. With the removal of public transportation, the traffic especially during rush hour would get worse and give people more incentive to go back to public transportation. Depending on an individuals destination, public transportation such as subways and trains may provide a faster and a more convenient form of transportation. With the current dependency of public transportation, it is unlikely that private vehicles would replace it entirely. These are only a few of the reasons why public transportation will continue to thrive after automatic vehicles becomes widely accepted. 

       The paper states that improvements of AI will make society safer due to the ability of computers to identify risks and react accordingly. The paper assumes that as AI continues to develop, authorities will start utilizing them to monitor the cameras to inform them of potential crimes. The paper underestimates public resistance to being continuously monitored by cameras spread throughout the city. According to the The Effect of CCTV on Public Safety by Leighton Walter Kille and Martin Maximino, 78% respondents of a poll by New York Times and CBS supported the use of surveillance cameras. Many people will likely find these cameras an infringement of their personal privacy. As AI gains that ability to monitor all surveillance cameras and surveillance cover increases, there will be more people uneased by the constant surveillance. There are also many concerns about how authorities will utilize the cameras. There have been many instances where authorities has used cameras for personal gain or to stalk an individual.  The government will need to first gain public trust by slowly adding on cameras though out the city and making the citizens feel that the cameras are providing more good than harm. The paper also did not consider the financial issues of dependency of security cameras.  The United States will need to spend millions to implement the new technology and to maintain them throughout the years. Although the surveillance will provide significant contributions, the implantation of these cameras will likely be delayed due to financial and social reasons.

       Work Cited


 Kille, Leighton Walter, and Martin Maximino. “The Effect of CCTV on Public Safety: Research Roundup.” Journalist's Resource, 9 Feb. 2017, journalistsresource.org/studies/government/criminal-justice/surveillance-cameras-and-crime.
Peter Stone, Rodney Brooks, Erik Brynjolfsson, Ryan Calo, Oren Etzioni, Greg Hager, Julia Hirschberg, Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan, Ece Kamar, Sarit Kraus, Kevin Leyton-Brown, David Parkes, William Press, AnnaLee Saxenian, Julie Shah, Milind Tambe, and Astro Teller.  "Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030." One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence: Report of the 2015-2016 Study Panel, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,  September 2016. Doc: http://ai100.stanford.edu/2016-report. Accessed:  September 6, 2016.
 “Public Transportation.” Public Transportation Benefits, American Public Transportation Association, 2017, www.apta.com/mediacenter/ptbenefits/Pages/default.aspx.


