	Growing up in an age of technology where the growth was so rapid, there were many times in my childhood and teenage years that I held the belief that given enough time and resources, anything and everything would be possible. As I grew older and my understanding of artificial intelligence began to develop, I still hold on to the belief that the limits are not yet known of where technology can take us. The timetable to which I think about more Is the near future based on the current state that technology and more specifically artificial intelligence is currently in. In a report done by the AAAI titled, “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence”,  they analyze the current state of artificial intelligence and possible future endeavors in many different aspects of life. I was extremely intrigued with many of the ideas and possibilities that were presented throughout this report as they were obviously given a lot of thought as they were thorough with concrete examples of things we already use and how those things can grow in a realistic manner. There was one area, however, that maybe didn’t concern me, but made me question the timetable and total success of the idea. The field in the report that I am going to critique is the area of home robots and personal service robots. 
	When it comes to the field of personal service robots or robots that do usual home activities, there have admittedly been great strides in the past few years. The report brought up the fact of personal home vacuums and how they uses sensors to detect surroundings and perform that task without human assistance. A point was raised where these vacuums are currently limited to flat surfaces and are unable to do any climbing or maneuvering over and across different things. I think it is pretty easy to believe that technology will be reached in the very near future. That is not the area that I am going to be critiquing. What I want to challenge is the timetable and possibility of personal home robots that have the ability to verbally communicate with humans and complete daily household tasks. I do not want to say that there is no possibility of this level of artificial intelligence is unreachable in the next 15 years as the technology for verbal communication and searches is becoming very advanced in current devices like Alexa and Siri. Specifically I see there being limits on the amount of resources that this could take to get this advanced of technology into the hands of the many households that exist in todays society to make it a staple in everyday human life. Secondly a limit to the timetable of this would be the financial means of the middle class individual to feel like this technology is worth the price to possibly simplify a few tasks around the house that they have already been doing all of their life. Lastly, it is extremely hard to mimic or replicate the actions of humans and their adaptability when it comes to emotion can not be replicated when decision making. 
	All in all, the thought and possibilities of all the information and ideas presented in this report have strong elaboration that make it hard to argue the possibly reality of it. Of course in an ideal world we would love to see these technologies come to life as soon as possible. I am excited to watch and follow not only this report but the world of artificial intelligence as my life goes on.
	
