Thoughts about Artificial IntelligenceWith the AI technology developed rapidly in the last 100 years, our life has been changed dramatically by Artificial intelligence. From the article about the study of AI by Stanford University, we are aware that lots of aspects in the future will be featured with well-developed Artificial Intelligence. Transportation will be improved by AI. Automated driving and even self-driving vehicles will be introduced to people daily life. There would be less traffic congestion, potential collision and more efficiency when people commute every day because of Artificial Intelligence improves the way vehicles are being driven. Furthermore, the article talks about health care will be improved by Artificial Intelligence. Because of self-learning and advanced analysis, healthcare and clinical surgery have been well assisted with Artificial Intelligence. As the results, patients will always be treated personally and punctually, which decreases the possibility of death of some terrible diseases. However, even though it looks like Artificial Intelligence is helpful and beneficial, from my perspective, not all aspects listed in the article are good for Artificial Intelligence. For example, it may not be a good idea to have Artificial Intelligence involved into education and replace human teachers. For kids in elementary school, teachers are their mentors and friends. It is the right time for them to know the world and understand our society.  Human teachers can tell the emotions and feeling of each student and have physical interactions with these young students. Artificial Intelligence could be useful when they are used to teach technical problems and sometimes create personal study plan for different students, however, young kids in elementary school also need to be emotionally taken care of. Only human teacher can tell how each student feel every day by his status and action. For Artificial Intelligence, this is a conundrum for programmer to capture every detail and analyze people emotions. It is the key difference between human and computer. Human teacher can easily take care of young student and be as a mentor. Artificial Intelligence cannot know people feelings and physically engage with them. For high school students, replacing human teachers by Artificial Intelligence may not be a good idea either. Neither teaching bots nor online AI learning will be much useful for high school students. If students are taught by bots every day, there is no one to supervise them to study and listen to the bots. Same results come with online learning. Although online learning will give students best and most efficient way to learn from textbook, students do not tend to study by themselves. Everyone can be too lazy to listen to the program. They may play videos online and just leave them like that while playing football with friends. Artificial Intelligence is not like human teacher that can direct and observe students. Human teacher can guide students in the right efficient way as AI program. As the consequence, it is more beneficial for high school students to be taught by real human teacher to truly study from the classes and textbook. Artificial intelligence can partially assist human teacher to have a better way teaching each different student but it can replace human teacher by its developed teaching bots or Intelligent Tutoring System. It serves as a tool to improve study but education may not be the best aspect for Artificial Intelligence to involve in. 