As the famous futurist Ray Kurzweil stated in his fiction “Singularity is near”, computers will have the same amount of memory as the human brain before 2018. Although many people think AI is not as intelligent as human, it can still perform numerous actions and process just like human. It is true that some of us may consider AI as simply mimicking human, but AI has gone far beyond our imagination.

Stanford’s ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND LIFE IN 2030 drew a vivid picture of the future. A future of human, living a closely connected life to AI. From everyday alarm to online education. From “understanding” natural language to controlling the traffic lights. AI penetrates to our lives in a complete way. 

However, to my point of view, some of the conditions and scenes described by the article are not reasonable and cannot be fully achieved. 

The article states that in the field of education, though quality education will always require active engagement by human teachers, AI promises to enhance education at all levels, especially by providing personalization at scale. It says AI can work as finding the pattern of mistakes that students are likely to make. Therefore, the AI can foresee the possible failure of students and give on-time feedbacks. 

To me, this enhance of the education, in this particular way, is not going to become the truth. As a student, I also want to see where I am going to make a mistake. But I have no idea about this. “Making mistakes” seems so random that cannot be predicted. A new supervisor may give me more pressure that lead to my mistake. A way-lower uncomfortable chair may keep my brain out of oxygen that lead to my mistake. The AI cannot see the circumstances a student is in. What is more, the AI cannot decide what is the factor that is going to be the trigger of the students’ mistake. Therefore, the AI cannot predict a student’s failure.

Another point that I disagree is the idea of regulations. In the article, the author proposed that Rather than more or stricter regulation, policies should be designed to encourage helpful innovation, generate and transfer expertise, and foster broad corporate and civic responsibility for addressing critical societal issues raised by these technologies. 

But in my point of view, when a new technology comes, we need more than enough regulations and policies. We have to make extremely strict and complete regulations which can cover every aspect of the new technology. AI is designed according to human’s process of thinking and doing things. At some point of the process, AI may reach the human brain gradually. So I state firmly that AI has to be treated as a human when it comes to the society. When a person is born, he will not escape from the eye of its parents or teachers for over approximately 15 years. Although we have these long term supervising and regulating of a person, he can still commit crimes. The AI is a more powerful, talented “person”. It certainly deserves more and stricter regulations instead of reckless encourages for innovations. Any innovation of AI must be fully tested and regulated. The progress of AI should be slow and steady instead of fast and risky. 

In the past a hundred years, technologies have evolved faster than the whole two thousand years. The slope of our development is higher than ever before. AI is one of the shining stars in the process, I believe the AI will dive into our lives more deeply in the future.
