	In recent few years, Artificial Intelligence(AI) has become a hot topic and aroused great attention in our society. However, there is a certain amount of people, who do not know what AI exact is, tend to look it as a threat based on the information through social medias, movies and fictions, which cause misunderstanding of AI, but Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030 offers readers a scientific view of AI. According to Chair et al. (2016), a better definition of AI would be enabling machines to interact with its environment properly (p. 12). In their article, most of the analysis were plausible, but they overestimated the development of AI and its relative problems. Also, they underestimated the influence of other technologies which can cooperate with AI. In brief, the fifteen-year interval set by Chair et al. (2016) is too short to accomplish all their assertions, and they ignored the influence of cooperation among AI, Augmented Reality(AR), and Virtual Reality(VR) on education. 	First of all, not only the software of AI but also the hardware of it will not be enough to help Chair et al. accomplishing all their assertions in the next fifteen years, and AI needs more time to be put into practice. For example, according to West (2017), the facial reorganization AI program made 35 false judgements on Sept. 7 which was its first time to be used by London police in practice (pp. 2-6). Even if a AI program is perfect in both theory and laboratory experiment, it might make mistakes when we put it into the real world because there are many unexpected situations that could confuse the AI program. What is more, as is mentioned by the author, AI needs legal support when making mistakes (Chair et al. p. 10). In this point, however, Chair et al. (2016) did not give a specific evidence to support their fifteen-year plan and gave an ideal statement that ¡°best practices need to be spread¡±, which made the deadline 2030 ambiguous (p.10). As is known to all, legislation is the what we make recourse when problems occur. Thus, the speed of legislation is crucial if AI programs are published to the society. Therefore, fifteen years is not enough to finish all the process, and practical AI needs more time to finish testing. 	After talking about time, the cooperation among AI, AR and VR is a significant aspect which was ignored by Chair et al.. Talking about education, the influence of AI is not limited in teaching robots and Massive Open Online Courses(MOOCs). Other technologies such as AR and VR will be important in education because they can provide nearly true experience to learners. Obviously, education is not only teaching but also experiencing. With the cooperation of AR and VR, AI programs will achieve a better outcome for learners.	In conclusion, Chair et al. made good analysis on AI, but they put too much confidence in the speed of the development of AI and its relevant areas like legislature, and they overlooked the impact of AI when cooperating with other technologies in educational areas. All in all, AI will make our life different and we should hold an appropriate attitude towards it.ReferencesChair, B. J, Altman, R., Horvitz, E., Mackworth, A., Mitchell, T., Mulligian, D., & Shoham Y.     (2016). Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030: One Hundred Year Study on Artificial     Intelligence. Pp. 1-52.West, Nicholas (2017, September 7). 35 False Matches And 1 Erroneous Arrest as Police Secretly        Test Facial Recognition Technology. Activist Post. Retrieve from     https://www.activistpost.com/2017/09/false-arrest-raise-questions-police-facial-recognition.html