	The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence provides an expansive overview of the ways artificial intelligence (AI) has changed society in the past fifteen years, focusing on several different sectors of the economy and society. The study also details ways that society can be expected to evolve alongside AI in the future, and ways that public policy should adapt to benefit society as a whole. However, this paper fails to address the amount of immediate effort that will be required to adapt current public policy to AI technologies, perhaps because this may frame AI as a threat to our current system rather than a boon to our society. In reality, the study should acknowledge immediate issues that are present today, such as uneven distribution of wealth in the economy, which must first be addressed if we hope to properly implement AI in the future.
	An example of a policy issue which the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence downplays is AI’s impact on the job market and economy. It is true, as the study states, that continued growth of AI will create new jobs, and could possibly be used to lower barriers to entry in the job market. However, as more and more jobs become automated, there is expected to be a net increase in unemployment. The report attempts to convince us that this will be beneficial to society; for example, the report states that AI systems will “have the effect of lowering the cost of many goods and services, effectively making everyone richer” (39). It is also often brought up that “everyone should be entitled to a portion of the world’s AI-produced treasure” (39). These statements seem reassuring, however they assume a seemingly utopian future where the economy is structured to benefit everyone without regard to social status. In reality, this is a tremendous leap from the current status of America’s economy, where the distribution of wealth is extremely out of balance. Without first fixing this problem at hand, it is easy to envision a future where AI widens the wealth distribution gap. The poor may become even poorer by losing jobs, and the rich may become even richer due to lowered cost of labor and lowered production costs.
	Unfortunately, the economy is simply one example of ways this study fails to address current policy issues. AI may intensify other current obstacles in public policy if they are not properly addressed in the present. Other issues that are not sufficiently acknowledged by this report are political issues such as privacy, taxation, or discrimination. If we hope to reach towards the future that is envisioned in this paper, it will not be easy; we must recognize current problems in our society, and begin resolving them today.
	AI has the potential to achieve great things, but it also has the potential to hurt many people. AI’s true impact on society depends on the policies that are present today, which will influence reform in the future. It is important that future reports of the One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence acknowledge the immediate issues that are present in today’s society, such as the discussed economic inequality. This will inform lawmakers that these issues will only grow with the implementation of AI, unless immediate action is taken. Hard work, meaningful discussion, and determination to restructure our current political system, for the benefit of the common people, is necessary if society truly wants to reap the endless benefits artificial intelligence has to offer.
