      The field of artificial intelligence has made great progress over the course of many years and currently has a plethora of technologies that have exceeded certain aspects of human intelligence (e.g., calculators). Even so, AI is a quite dynamic field and has the potential for significant advances in the near future. The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence aims to track the progress of different sectors of AI and make predictions on the future of AI given current research achievements.  Overall, the paper thoroughly describes what AI is, the achievements in AI, and the well-supported predictions of the future of AI. However, I claim that they are overstating their opinions on the development of transportation.      According to the article, “Autonomous transportation will soon become common place…” This statement assumes that these vehicles will soon begin to be available in variety car dealerships and that people will trust and want to purchase a very different and new type of vehicle. Although it is true that companies like Google and Tesla have created prototypes of self-driving cars, it appears there are not sufficient data to convince car dealerships that they will be profitable. If these cars are introduced at a slower rate and adequate data are collected to demonstrate that these cars are indeed desirable, dealerships will be more willing to invest. As a result, the transition from self-operated cars to self-driving cars will take more than 15 years. Additionally, the authors of the article state that “Transportation is likely to be one of the first domains in which the general public will be asked to trust the reliability and safety of an AI system for a critical task.” They continue to emphasize that by 2030 these vehicles will be commonplace. This seems like an overarching assumption given that there aren’t sufficient studies on the safety of these vehicles once integrated at large into society. Also, humans are generally resistant to significant changes in everyday life such as altering their transportation routine.  Such resistance to change is made more intractable where there are doubts on safety making it unlikely these drastically different vehicles will dominate. The article states there exists a study that “predicts self-driving cars will be adopted by 2020” and that self-driving cars “will eliminate one of the biggest causes of accidental death and injury in the United States….” I believe that wide-scale adoption of self-driving cars is definitely a direction that society will be heading toward. However, the timeline seems too quick and I suggest that more studies on the opinions of people nationally are important to complete before such time projections can be definitively made.       Artificial intelligence is at the cusp to revolutionize many different areas including transportation, robots, healthcare, education, communities, safety, employment, entertainment, and etc. I believe this report explains these progressions and their limitations well. For example, the article states that regardless of the slow growth of home robots, there is an expected dramatic growth in their use by 2030. The authors cite a number of reasons why there should be expected change. However, I believe this article did not provide the same thorough explanation as a basis their predictions for AI penetration in transportation. If a more in-depth examination of AI and transportation was given, their argument would seem more plausible.      