    Nowadays, artificial intelligence is becoming a prevailing topic which is relative to people’s daily life in every fields. According to the increasing number of discussions about AI, many scholars also pay much attention on the research about the AI. The researchers in Study Panel focus on applications of AI in various industries, and finish an article called ‘Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030’ after deep analysis.Tta Inside this paper, there are many practical aspects of the artificial intelligence discussed. I’m very interested in the education field, because education is a closed topic for me, as a student. The article expresses that the teaching robots and online courses are good methods to enhance the efficiency of teaching, include helping teaching, expending students around the world, collect students’ data, and so on. However, I have different opinions for some of the topics in the paper. I believe that even though artificial intelligence is really helpful in most of daily life, education field has a more complicated situation for AI to deal with.
    Firstly, artificial intelligence teaching tutors can not interact with students based on their moods, which might slow down the learning speed. Tutoring systems which are used by numerous students for learning mathematics, programming, chemistry, circuit, and so on mimic as good human tutors to guide students to solve problems. However, adjusting students’ learning temper is also a significant responsibility for teachers. A depressed student  would never have a high efficiency on learning. For example, a student who struggles on debugging a complicated programming problems finally solve this hard question, and then he might be excited for solve a hard problem or he might be tired because of this program. The AI tutor is hard to figure out which situation the student is. Therefore, it is hard to give a suitable next problem. If the next question is too hard or too simple, it is possible to cause students to stop learning and leave the computers. Although the teaching tutors can survey students’ moods during teaching, it is not good for students’ learning pace, so AI teaching tutors are not perfect roles for teaching.
    Secondly, using online learning to collect data is not a dependable way. The data collectors are hard to know what happens on the student’s’ side. The same phenomena might be triggered by different reasons. For example, if thirty percent of the students do one question wrong. One third of them maybe don’t understand the knowledge clear. One third of them maybe don’t understand what the question is. One third of them maybe just feel sleepy. It is hard to analyze the real situation. Therefore, the data set obtained from online learning are not specific enough for research purposes.
    Thirdly, some subjects are not suitable for AI to teach, such as dancing and singing. These subjects focus on practicing people’s abilities and skills. Artificial intelligence is not human, and they can reach where people can not easily. AI can not share feelings with students how to do an action or reach a pitch as a human, so it is an ineffective teaching.
    Although artificial intelligence can help on some parts of the education, this field is so intricacy that only real people can deal with major and important parts of  the education. Therefore, AI is not as useful as people believe in the education field.