     Artificial Intelligence called AI, inspired by human nerve, is a type of computer technology that focuses on making machine more intelligence. The report ¡®Artificial Intelligence And Life In 2030¡¯ written in 2016 by Stanford University discusses how the world will be changed in the future along with development of AI. This report introduces various AI technologies that could possibly applied in people daily lives. It says that these technology will eventually change our world dramatically and foster people convenience. I also agree with this thought. However, I think it is hard to ignore the problems that are coming with development of AI. When this report focused more on how the world change with AI, I want to focus more on how this AI can possibly give confusion to the world in two categories: regulation, and crime.
     I totally agree that AI will be able to make people lives better but only if it is used with correct and strict regulation. I believe proper regulation is needed to apply AI to people lives. Of course I know there will be many experiment before introduce new AI machine for minimize problems. Still, as this report said, it will be hard to predict what is really going to happen. There is possibility to have exceptions out of regulation. Theses exceptions may be very minor thing; but at the same time, they may be big threat that even can threat one¡¯s life. According to the report introduced by this Stanford report, it predicts that self-driving cars will be popularly used in 2020. However, in my opinion, it may be take more times to be popularly adopted because of regulation. Maybe self-driving can be used for automatic parking that can cause minor issue, but it is hard to imagine many people use self-driving car on the street yet.
     Along with the regulation, it is pretty important to think about new crime that could happen with AI technology. Recently I read a news that drones were used to carry drugs, cell phones, and pornography to prisoners in the California and Maryland prisons. Experts said that drones can possibly deliver guns and any dangerous things to the prisoners that cannot be delivered using traditional smuggling method. This case shows that crimes can be happened unexpected ways with the development of AI. 
     Moreover, it could be very difficult to judge one¡¯s fault if crime is happened by AI. For example, if two self-driving cars have car accident, who will take responsibility for this accident? The person who use less intelligent AI? or the car company? This kinds of problems can be happened not only on self-driving car but also anything that use AI technology.
     I do not want to say development of AI will destroy the world like a ¡®Skynet¡¯ in the Terminator movie. Rather, I would highly encourage to continue AI technology when it can make people live longer in better conditions. The only thing I concern here is the clear regulations and countermeasures against new technology. I believe, if clear regulations and countermeasures can be held in society, AI technology will then be enriched the world.   

*Citation*
Abbasi, W. (2017, June 17). Inmates fly mobile phones, drugs and porn into jail - via drone. Retrieved September 14, 2017, from https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2017/06/15/inmates-increasingly-look-drones-smuggle-contraband-into-their-cells/102864854/
