	Artificial intelligence is rapidly encroaching upon all aspects of human life. From simple household tasks, like vacuuming, to robots that are more precise at diagnosing patients than a doctor, AI is here to stay. With this new technology comes profound and ethical problems that need to be addressed before this technology outpaces the current laws and regulations in place today. The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence made great points outlining where A.I will be in the year 2030. One major problem associated with A.I is how to protect the massive amounts of data being collected and used by the various technologies using A.I. This problem was glossed over in this study, but it plays a massive role in shaping how we will use and implement this technology in the future. Another problem that is bound to arise is the displacement of peoples jobs due to artificial intelligence. This study provides no alternative solution or a call to arms to fix these massive problems that have the potential to completely upheave society.
	The topic of privacy has become a hot button issue of recent. Most people have all their personal information, like credit cards, social security numbers, etc., on their smartphones and or computers. This leaves millions of people open to cyber attacks that could ruin them financially and completely disrupt their lives. This problem is even more evident with A.I because it relies on massive amounts of data being collected from users daily. With the recent Experian hack that comprised over 300 million Americans social security numbers, privacy and protection of people’s data should be at the forefront of the A.I conversation. The study completely glosses over the overwhelming negatives that can result without proper legislation to deal with this potential catastrophic situation. The legislation should not be written to deter A.I, but to give it some sort of direction that protects the millions of people who will soon be using this technology daily. 
	Soon most of lower class will be forced out of their low skilled jobs due to A.I and automation. These low wage jobs barely keep these people afloat as is and soon they will be out of a job with no safety net or anything to help them. This will only increase the already evident issue of poverty in America. The study should support some sort of safety net program, like universal basic income, for the people whose jobs were taken by artificial intelligence. Automation is right around the corner and there has barely been a conversation about the inevitable fall out that will occur among the lower class. This study briefly talks about adding a safety net program, but there should be an entire section dedicated to funding a program to help all these soon to be displaced workers. 	A.I is the future and will become a prominent force in everyones day to day lives. This study did the most basic job in outlining where A.I is headed, but not in showing the dangerous sides to it. The public should know the how dangerous this technology can be. Also there should be more legislation, or at least more political conversation, concerning the protection of users data, as well as dealing with the complete loss of jobs for the lower middle class.