	Upon completion of the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, I was left with several questions and doubts regarding certain statements and generalizations the article had made. Although it provided various well supported claims and predictions for the future, it was filled with some ideas that still seemed out of reach for the time being. One prominent claim I took issue with was the predicted wide-spread adoption of self-driving vehicles and delivery systems by the year 2020. The first thought that came to mind when reading this was the service industry, and how this large change could in turn bring about sizeable changes within said industry as well. With the adoption of self-driving cars, trucks, and other automated delivery systems, the service industry will be facing large layoffs as they will no longer need the human component in the delivery system. Previous service workers will be facing wide-spread economic hardship, in turn increasing the nation’s unemployment rate as well as negatively impacting the nation’s economy. I believe that in this case, the convenience of the technology does not outweigh the social and economic impact it will have in the years following its installation. The second thought that followed was that this was an extremely ambitious timeline for the perfection, and full-scale adoption of this new technology that had merely started as an idea in 2004. Although many large corporations like Google and Tesla are currently working on their own version of the self-driving car, there is still much distrust within the general public of this forward-thinking technology. With the recent death of a self-driving car early adopter behind the wheel of Google’s self-driving vehicle I feel as though there is still a large amount of distrust. Although the technology has come a very long way over the course of the last decade, there are still large technological advances that need to be made before the vehicles are able to be released as a safe and viable option of transportation.  The third and final issue I had with this notion was the level of autonomy these specific vehicles and delivery mediums would possess. As was touched on elsewhere in the article, the automated cars, trucks, and delivery systems do not possess a moral compass or code of ethics as a human might. When encountering a situation in which the driver could survive if three pedestrians were to be killed, or vice versa, what would the autonomous vehicle choose in the split second it takes to react to a situation of said caliber? On the other side of this issue, when are systems like this becoming too autonomous to the point where they are creating their own pseudo languages to more efficiently communicate with each other at a level we no longer understand? I believe that this stretch goal of the wide-spread adoption of self-driving vehicles and delivery systems by the year 2020 is very implausible and ambitious. As we are soon entering the year 2018, I feel there is far too much beta testing, real-world application, and economic consideration that must be done before we can safely integrate this technology into our society. 