	The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence is one of the first long term collaborations that has been created regarding the study and advancement of the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The study brings up many well thought out points regarding various aspects of this fairly new field of science. Although I agree with almost all points of this study, there is one in particular that I do not agree with, and that is the idea that self-driving cars will be a normal occurrence and widely adopted by the year 2020. 	I believe that self-driving cars will be more prevalent in the future, but a mere three years into the future seems outlandish. There are too many obstacles that will need to be maneuvered before self-driving cars will be at the level they need to be at in order to be used on a day-to-day basis. One of the largest issues automobile companies will encounter when trying to deploy these self-driving cars is on the legal front. It is mentioned multiple times in the article that there is a large gray area when it comes to law on self-driving cars and whose responsibility it would be in the event of an incident. Is the “driver” at fault or the company who made the car? These legal issues will play a huge roll in halting the transition from regular to self-driving vehicles in every day life. 	Another problem that can also be accredited to the previous section is the public’s view on AI in every day technology. The public may have a very negative outlook on this new type of technology. Although a large majority of the population is fairly comfortable with technology, this does not mean that they would put their lives in its hands for a common task such as driving. Millions of people drive motorized vehicles every day. This article makes the assumption that this transition would be widely accepted by the public. Similar to any other technology, the public would have to accept it with great enthusiasm for it to work and be a success. For some people this technological advancement would simply be too much for them to accept. The idea that the entire population could get on board by the year 2020 is asking a lot. 	Also, this study was only focused on the United States. Countries around the world already use cars in a different way then we do. Many other countries have different laws and regulations when it comes to vehicles. This may cause more issues to arise for the companies who created the vehicles. In order for them to deport these vehicles to other countries, the laws of those countries may have to be changed as well. This then becomes a national political issue. Should all the countries have similar rules and regulations pertaining to self-driving cars or should each individual country specify the laws to best suit themselves? In the upcoming years these ideas will have to be discussed. 	In my personal opinion we are at a minimum of ten years away from seeing a large population of self-driving cars on the roads on a regular basis. It will be years after that until the entire population of vehicles on the roads are self-driving. These are a few of the reasons why I believe that the study overestimated the transition speed from normal to self-driving vehicles in the public setting. A more conservative estimation is going to have to be made to more accurately represent the current state of the public’s opinion on the advancement of this technology.