Reading the article ¡°The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence¡± was fascinating since it describes how AI has been developed so far and it would be as well as how it would change the world. However, some concerns are popped up while I was reading the article especially related to the Healthcare issue, so I¡¯d like to address questions and casts my concerns and worries about the AI application in Healthcare fields. 
According to the article¡¯s argument, AI-based application has been developed and it could improve the health of people. AI is currently used as in a supplementary health device such as Fitbit to enhance the quality of health by analyzing life habit or sleep pattern. In the future, it will be more elaborate and eventually try to serve the examination or diagnosis of disease like a doctor. For example, people have a medical issue, they could use the AI application to figure out the reason. If people wear wearable AI devices, the AI-based application can collect health data, so AI could suggest possible reasons of that issue based on personal database and big data from the past medical database. Furthermore, it may inform the possible disease and even suggest the treatment (of course it would say it is just ¡°suggestion¡± and not the official medical diagnosis). At the beginning, people may not trust the application, but as other AI applications like Siri, Netflix, or Tesla, it becomes pretty accurate, and increasingly people are going to trust the application. Thus, if they consider their health issue is minor, or AI application says, ¡®possibly minor¡¯, they would not go to clinic and examine by the actual doctor since it costs a lot. I concern that it could make people insensitive to safety, and lax attitude toward medical security could cause serious damages such as late treating infectious disease.
The other concern is a quite opposite situation from the previous concern, that AI application may increase medical cost generally. Supposed that AI has ¡°sufficient data¡±. There is no rule that doctors cannot use the AI application. They may want to use it since it could catch something that doctors may miss. However, since AI application has tremendous data, it is likely to suggest lots of possible disease, so doctors should consider other possible diseases although they do not agree with that from their experience. To examine the other possible diseases, patients should get more exams such as blood test, CT, MRI, or specific exams. For most cases, it reveals that the possible diseases are not the final diagnosis, and all cost for exams burden the patients, as well as community. Even so, doctors cannot ignore AI application since the extra exams rarely catch the severe disease, and it could cause medical disputes if the doctors ignore the AI application. Thus, AI application could result in overtreatment or unnecessary tests, which could seem as positive for some people, but it is not since patients will undergo stressful tests, spend lots of money and waste time, as well as it will also increase social costs tremendously.
Peter Stone, Rodney Brooks, Erik Brynjolfsson, Ryan Calo, Oren Etzioni, Greg Hager, Julia Hirschberg, Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan, Ece Kamar, Sarit Kraus, Kevin Leyton-Brown, David Parkes, William Press, AnnaLee Saxenian, Julie Shah, Milind Tambe, and Astro Teller.
Reference
"Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030." One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence: Report of the 2015-2016 Study Panel, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,  September 2016. Doc: http://ai100.stanford.edu/2016-report. Accessed:  September 6, 2016.