Artificial Intelligence is changing the world around us in many more ways than we know. One of those ways I would like to specifically focus on is the idea of autonomous transportation. There is little doubt about the need for more self-driving vehicles as accidents are a leading cause in deaths, pollution is still on the rise, and commutes are longer than ever. With the right minds and policy more and more autonomous vehicles will continue to join the roadways, from commuters to commercial drivers the variations go on and on. With car companies such as Tesla making this a reality, it is hard to believe that more change won’t come. Where I disagree completely however, is the idea that people will be welcoming to and enjoy a completely autonomous driving experience. First off, not everyone buys a car primarily for the sake of transportation. The average consumer thinks of a car as an investment and takes great pride in their purchase, and they will usually get a vehicle to match their personality and needs (i.e. a Mercedes-Benz for an office executive). On top of that, there is also a large majority of people that may want a faster vehicle than others due to their driving habits. Even if autonomous vehicles were made to look unique and match personalities and needs, they would still be driving the same speed as everyone else with same autonomous functions as everyone else. People only want to obey the traffic laws when it doesn’t affect them, for example, if you are just driving to go play golf you probably aren’t going to be in a rush and have little concern over how fast the speed limit and traffic flow is, but if you were in a hurry to get to work on time you may break the speed limit to get past those other slower drivers on their way to play golf, hence the need to speed and break the law. Now it would be very naive to think that everyone is going to leave for work on time when they have an autonomous vehicle, and there is no way that the autonomous vehicle is going to fly by other vehicles as it is not fair for someone’s autonomous vehicle to have the priority to pass everyone else because they didn’t wake up early enough to leave on time. Adding on, people also aren’t going to just be satisfied with one autonomous family vehicle, people today often have many more vehicles than they need due to either vast wealth or interest in cars. What is to keep these wealthier people from sending their autonomous cars all over the place to run errands therein just adding to the mass of traffic already, and no matter how good traffic flow gets some roadways are not modern enough to handle the exponential growth of the population. Lastly, are regulatory officials going to just tell collectors who have thousands of cars worth millions that they can’t legally drive them anymore because they aren’t autonomous? And if they don’t what will keep them from driving a normal vehicle way faster to get past a line of autonomous vehicles all going the same speeds, and who’s fault will it be if there’s an accident? Only time will tell how people accept change to autonomous vehicles, but it is clear that change is occurring and people are going to have to change with it.