	Authors and fanatics of Science Fiction dreamt about autonomous cars as early as the 1930’s. In the year 2017, we’re well on our way to that reality. 
As the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence claims, by the year 2030, autonomous cars could be commonplace in the average North American city. 
The report makes this claim yet spends little time talking about factors other than technology.  By 2030 autonomous cars will not be common place due to issues of policy,
 accessibility of new cars to all members of a typical North American city, or the longevity of existing cars. 

	According to IHS Automotive in 2014, the average lifespan of a car is 11.4 years. If a person bought a car in 2017, that person will probably still drive that car
 in 2028 or longer as cars improve. Therefore, it’s likely they would drive their car still in 2030. Currently, no completely autonomous cars are commercially available and 
only Tesla makes semi-autonomous cars. Google remains the only manufacturer of completely autonomous cars, meaning the technology exists. Cars don’t become common place on 
the road overnight. The average lifespan of cars proves that most people who have bought cars within 5 years from now will still drive them in 2030. The existence of the 
technology won’t prevent these cars getting on the road; the longevity of a cars lifespan will.  
		
	Another factor contributing to the prolonged timeline of autonomous cars is the availability of them. Currently, the cheapest Tesla semi-autonomous car is $35,000, 
which have just recently gone into production. The top ten most popular sedans on the market today are all under $30,000, putting Tesla’s car out of the price range of the 
average American. By the time completely autonomous cars are even allowed on the market, it’ll take years to make them affordable to everyone, putting the commonality of 
completely autonomous cars beyond 2030. 
	
	Finally, the largest reason why autonomous cars won’t be common until after 2030 is policy. Currently, only four states and one place in Canada have laws regarding 
autonomous cars, according to the study. The FAA currently limits commercial drone usage, including regulations making long distance usage nearly impossible. For instance, 
Pilots must remain in sight of a drone always and cannot fly the over people.  Completely autonomous cars could bypass similar regulations; for example, Tesla reques drivers 
to keep their hands on the wheel always to engage Auto Pilot. Strict regulations on drones which are not even autonomous, it can only be assumed legislation on commercial 
autonomous cars will be slow and restrictive, pushing the availability of these cars out further than 2030. 
	
	Completely autonomous cars are predicted by the One Hundred Year study to be commonly available in a typical North American city by 2030, yet they don’t take consider
 outside factors. The study briefly mentions policy briefly, but doesn’t get into transportation policy as much as it should. Policy will hinder the timeline of autonomous cars
 the most, as congress is slow and current drone regulations are strict. Additionally, economic concerns like price as well as the current lifespan of cars will prevent people
 from buying them, making them common on the road. A more realistic thing to say would be that semi-autonomous cars will be commonplace or even that the presence of autonomous
 cars will be much greater in 2030, not that completely autonomous cars will be commonplace. 
