	In the “Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence,” the authors raise the concern of government taxation in relation to AI. The article suggests that the government may attempt to pass regulatory laws that slow the progress of AI in order to adjust taxes to account for shifting labor conditions. This prospect is alarming. Emerging AI technology could certainly have a large economic effect with enough diffusion into different industries. It is true that this technology could eventually replace many current jobs. However, great care should be taken with policy regarding AI from a regulatory and taxation perspective. In fact, government should do everything it can to not impede the progress of AI, and even encourage its development.
	Government irresponsibility regarding taxation is clearly an issue. The prospect of jobs being replaced by AI, and the subsequent unrest that could be caused should certainly not be ignored. To alleviate this, policy makers should begin to come up with solutions right away. AI is already quickly seeping into many industries, and politicians need to respond to this before it becomes an issue. If delayed, the rise of AI could cause a large amount of unrest or a reactionary response from the government. 
	A reactionary response to this shift from the government could pose large problems. Firstly, it should be stated the government excessively taxing or regulating AI development to slow progress while it figures problems out is not only antithetical to the ideas of economic liberty in America, but also regressive in multiple ways. AI has the potential to help many people in this country and beyond, expand the economy, and further human knowledge. For example, AI developments in the medical field can help the population generally, self driving cars can help prevent the many deaths resulting from car collisions, AI development in consumer electronics can grow business, and the advancement of AI will help us to define what intelligence even is, and furthermore, possibly what consciousness is eventually. The advancement of technology and science in and of itself is reason enough not to impede process. It is not known in the present how crucial certain scientific discoveries become in the future. Chemistry, physics, computers, and many more endeavors have fundamentally altered and improved the lives of everyone. This is undeniable. The many ways that AI may save lives, help people, or just make lives simpler is purely inference at this point in time. The potential is certainly there though.
	This argument doesn’t ignore the fact that AI could lead to important issues. The employment of people is certainly crucial, and should be addressed. Similarly, questions of privacy and ethics should be addressed. However, more nuance needs to be used than simply over-regulating or slowing progress through excessive taxation. Problems need to be truly addressed, not simply pushed aside. A reactionary response to AI will not solve any true issue, and discouraging business in AI will simply hurt the economy and lose business to other countries.
	The potential of AI is undeniable throughout many disciplines. This should not be ignored. The pursuit of a better world, better entertainment  and technology, business, and general knowledge is all worthy. Therefore, government should shy away from impeding technological progress and should encourage the development of new technologies in AI.
