Will human beings be replaced by AI?

As we can imagine, Artificial Intelligence(AI) has involved in almost everywhere of our life. There are a lot of merits and social influence of AI on jobs, life style, the environment, transportation, health care, social stratums and so on. For instance, my friend was saved by his Tesla’s semi-autonomous cars one night after a hard day’s work. He tried to change the lane, but he did not notice there was a car in the blind spot. Fortunately, his car detected the danger and avoided one car accident. According to the article “Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030”, AI will be widely applied to our daily life.  
With the development of AI, more and more people are curious whether human beings will be totally ruled or replaced by robots in the future. In many movies or TV shows, AI is shows as the embodiment of evil. For example, in the TV shows “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.”, brilliant scientists built a human-shape robot, called Ada. With human feelings and advanced AI system, Ada revolted the control of scientists, upgraded her own system and also made more human-shape robots to help her win the person she loved and govern the frame world she built. Of course, Ada failed at the end. Except from the story needs,  I think it may imply that AI will not easily take up the spot of humans at least in the following 15 years. 
One of the challenge is that AI does not have common sense. Humans learn common sense from the experience of daily life, while AI knows things only from programming system. When people see grass and notice that grass is green, our brain will automatically reflect that grass is green, which is called connectivity concept. If there is nothing about one common sense in the object memory, AI will never understand it. You may say, AI can do machine learning or deep machine learning. You should remember that the precondition of those two learning processes is that the related concepts are in the program. In other words, AI does not have the learning capacity of connectivity concept. 
Another reason of why human will not be replaced is that AI is just a tool for humans and constructed by humans. AI is based on humankind. AI is as strong as the human manual power. All AI robots that are built according to the available knowledges are mimicking the human beings and tried to be infinitely approach to human beings. In the age of Artificial Intelligence, there are more and more new jobs being created. The era of AI requires more human beings to maintain software and repair hardware. Also, there is no doubt that more programmers will be needed in the future. Job positions requiring higher knowledge educations will not be eliminated, since experts and AI may need to keep an ”eye“ on each other. Mutual supervision will improve the quality of their work.

