	The Stanford One Hundred Year Study presents a variety of interesting perspectives on artificial intelligence and machine learning, and does its best to give a comprehensive picture of the field in the 21st century. However, there are certainly some shortcomings in its analysis and improbable predictions on the evolution of AI. In particular, the education portion of the piece seems flimsy in its reasoning. While AI could be useful for data analytics about the learning process, there is an intangible human element required for effective teaching that it could never replace.
	One of the main applications of AI which the study mentions is the use of Intelligent Tutoring Systems, suggesting that these systems will help students learn more efficiently by giving individualized feedback and hints. However, any modern day student who has worked with any kind of online homework portal will tell you that such hints are rarely helpful. Obviously the current technology has plenty of potential to improve, but a real interaction with a human tutor or instructor is much more efficient. A real instructor can better understand the student’s problem solving process and present the student with guiding questions. Meanwhile, the student is able to fire back more questions in real time. For involved topics such as mathematics and physics, a computer simply can’t obtain enough data to analyze a student’s thought process. It has no access to the student’s scratch paper or work, so it cannot gather the equations, diagrams or sequential mathematical operations that reveal their errors. Even if a complex monitoring system was devised, such as requiring the work to be written on a touch screen and running handwriting analysis, there is too much variation in the ways different people choose to approach complex problems. It is much more efficient to consult a real teacher who could process all of these variables and move forward with a viable solution in a matter of minutes.
	Another main aspect of the study is the prevalence of Massive Open Online courses and their potential to revolutionize education when coupled with artificial intelligence. However, there is great importance in the peer to peer and student to instructor interactions within a physical classroom setting. Educational psychology has proven that collaborative learning helps improve the understanding and retention of concepts; explaining the material to another peer forces a student to prove they really comprehend it. Of course this sort of interaction could be simulated through instant messaging and video chatting, but physically being gathered in the same space is more interactive and more efficient. Additionally, there are many other benefits to attending a real school---principally networking. MOOCs cannot provide a student with the crucial connections that are possible in traditional higher education. Relationships with professors and peers can lead to a variety of research and career opportunities, prospects which are vital to success after university. While technology becomes increasingly important in the learning environment, the human element in teaching can never be replaced, and the applications of AI in such a complex system are minimal.	AI could offer some interesting insight into learning habits through data analytics, but ultimately a human is more efficient in the field of education. They are better able to comprehend the various factors that play into instruction and provide highly individualized help to students. While technology plays an important role in modern classrooms, the social and societal benefits of attending a real school continue to outweigh the online alternative. Artificial intelligence offers some very exciting advancements across many disciplines---unfortunately, education is not one of them.