	In the report of artificial intelligence and life in 2030, the author shows an optimistic attitude towards the mass deployment and usage of AI. However, this might not be the case since the public can still regard AI as untrustworthy and AI may not be as useful as the author states.
	Although the report believes, it is possible that AI may be reliable enough after 15 years of developing, it is just an imagine. The fact is a substantial number of people do not trust them now and it is highly possible they will not change their attitude in time, which naturally results in objection of AL usage. Firstly, some of AI are not intelligent enough, fails unexpectedly and there are little sign that this situation is going to change. For example. multiple crashes that tesla auto driving car system has cause. In many cases, this auto pilot system ignores warnings and signal or fails to detect other cars that are nearby; some cases show the system assumes every other car on road is following the traffic rules which is not always true; few others are critical, the car just lose control. After generations of updates, only little number of bugs are fixed according to statistic of accident. These AI, after a high speed of development, apparently are reducing the speed they are evolving. With no sigh of a critical break through, these auto systems are not trustworthy. Secondly, people today are influenced in many ways that they should not trust or use them. From 2000 until now, countless number of movies, tv series, novels even games showing the rebel of AI. The Terminator for example, tells a story of sky net, an Al developed by government decided to launch all nuclear missiles. Impression of AL is evil is introduced to public, although educated people knows these devil Al are just movies and unreal, after all these years since the terminator movie, people still could not erase this bad impression of AI. What¡¯s more, the smarter AI is, the more people scare of it. According to theory of uncanny valley from Sigmund Freud who believes as an object that originally attractive suddenly been scared or hated by human when it becomes more similar to human. The movies of AI rebel were just a joke because AI are not smart enough. but as it grows, just like Freud said, people have doubt. Some people may argue, why can¡¯t people get used to it? For me, this is just like bias, it is possible for people to get over with but this action requires a large amount of time. From history, biases or myths takes generations to disappear. 15 years is highly impossible to be enough. With this doubt of the unstable nature of AI and fear from human nature, it is more likely people will be against AI in 2030.
	AI is a good helper to human. All it need is time ¨C time to develop and time for people to get used to. The society will be full of AI but not in the near future.
