According to Stanford AI in 100 years at page 31, computer-based learning systems are not likely to fully replace human teaching in schools. However, I believe in the next couple decades, AI will at least replace all the human teaching in a couple of schools, mostly colleges.

AIs are most suitable in colleges. First, Artificial Intelligent robots are more knowledgeable than lecturers. While lecturers may have earned PhDs in their relative fields, AIs have been programmed to answer any type of questions in milliseconds. As long as students are asking technical question without using sarcasm or double meaning sentences, AIs are more efficient in managing Q & A forums such as Piazza. Second, AIs are also programmed to perform a perfect lecture, make perfect PPTs or write like typed on the blackboard; while a professor may be late or absent because of family issues, sickness, or conferences. A professor may also spend too much time on some specific slides, causing him to delay the course schedule or run through it fastly, yet AIs time every topic and demonstration accurately. All in All, these can end up hiring fewer lecturers, more researchers for the college and possibly lower college tuition. Thus I believe the teaching aspect (not researching aspect) of a college may fully be replaced in several state schools to reduce tuition in the next few decades.

Though unimaginable for some people, even lower level education teaching by human may be fully replaced in a small portion of schools around the world. People may expect teachers to be better than AI in passing down morals and manners, and yet seeing from the other side, parents are able to take part in “programming the teacher” to discipline children the way they deem appropriate. The facilities in the classroom can also be programmed so once a kid leaves his or her chair the parents can be notified. They can even use robot arms to bring the kids back to their seats or wake them up if they fall asleep. Parents can know how much lunch his or her kid has eaten, how tiring the kid is, how the whole teaching experience for the kid is, and more, like how health care AI systems are taking jobs aways from nurses and doctors. Most parents may feel uncomfortable for their kids to go through such progressive pedagogy, yet there will definitely parents would like to try, either they are too busy in work or do not believe in the current education system.

In addition, cram schools, schools that students go after their day time school, may be renovated as well. Since cram schools mostly encourages repetitive practice and strict manners, as well as cram schools are for profit, there is more intention for cram school owners to replace teachers with AI as they can lower their cost. It is also easier to create perfect education as they can make AI learn from cram school teachers without facing any legal disputes like teachers in formal education may face. All in All, different types of schools, no matter formal or informal, higher education or lower education, are highly likely to find a path to a teacher-less teaching environment.
