   In the Stanford “One hundred year study on artificial intelligence”, it is claimed that AI will enhance education at all levels, especially by personalize education programs. Some believe that AI will soon to play a major role and even replace human teacher in education. However, even though some aspects of AI might prove helpful to educators, it will require a great deal of development until AI can provide quality education because it cannot provide the necessary teacher-students interaction, notice students’ psychological and emotional states or teach art subjects.   First of all, the most important aspect of learning is the interaction between students and instructors. The exchange of ideas is the most effective way for students to absorb knowledge. Online courses or teaching robots, even though can provide information and instructions to learners, may find it hard to explain complicated cognitive matters. When information is transferred to students in a verbal way, it is proven that they can memorize it more effectively. In a traditional classroom, students can discuss ideas with their instructor or classmates. Discussing ideas will lead to a deeper understanding of the material. Moreover, AI is claimed to help multiplying the size of classroom for educators, but that might be limited only to low-level classes. In high-level education, students will need in-hand assistance from a human teacher. Feedback from cognitive tutor might be slow and not essence to the question. Even if they can access knowledge online, students will still require a human instructor to explain complicated matters and answer questions.   Secondly, it is claimed in the article that AI can help provide personalization at scale, thus improve the education system. While online courses and Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) can reach more students faster, it is far from creating a personalized education system. A good education system does not just include providing all the necessary information and courses. A teacher can notice psychological and emotional states of students while learning, thus improve the quality of education. When students are distracted or confused, teachers can notice and provide suitable action and help, when machines will just go through the material automatically. Thus, it is far more effective when students learn from a human teacher, other than an online program or an intelligent machine tutor.   Last but not least, while online courses may be helpful on some science subjects, it is challenging to build a bot to teach about arts. For example, when teaching literature, a teacher can provide subjective opinion on a novel or the author. A student can choose to believe or challenge the teacher’s idea, thus have a chance to develop his own thoughts. That process, while not possible when learning with a machine, can build up students’ passion about the subject. Since there are no absolute right or wrong on art subjects, it requires a human teacher with subjective opinion to teach in those areas.   In conclusion, the importance of human interaction in education, students’ psychological and emotional states while learning and the subjective aspect of art subjects make it hard for AI to advance in education. Although AI has been effective in low-level education, or teaching simple subjects, it still requires massive development to be more effective in the education industry.