	For several decades, views of the future have involved flying cars or self-driving cars.  With Maximum Overdrive, Terminator, and I, Robot, fears of humanlike Artificial Intelligence systems have been a staple of dystopian future entertainment.  With this level of ingrained suspicion regarding artificial intelligence, it is going to take a lot of time and PR to integrate high level AI into items used every day, especially when putting one’s life in the robot hands.  The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence boasted about the achievements of AI in data crunching to eliminate biases and self-driving cars, but there are significant challenges to both of these proposed uses of AI in today’s society.
	The article claims that AI has “the potential to provide new kinds of transparency about
data and inferences, and may be applied to detect, remove, or reduce human bias, rather than reinforcing it” (p. 8).  While this may be true, facts and statistics can be interpreted various ways and spun to support many different viewpoints.  Also, the current political climate does not agree with certain facts and figures, as in they believe facts and statistics are subject to their beliefs and whether or not they want to agree.  In this system, with AI already seen as malevolent, mysterious, or magical, the projections and statistics generated by AI will be called into question as less factual than human-based ones.
	This leads to the fact that as the world changes, many people are stuck in their ways, especially older generations.  The main conflict in this area is that most politicians are older, have antiquated opinions, and reject scientific evidence if they feel they can.  Due to the mysticism surrounding AI, it is likely that harsh regulations, laws, and misinformation will block the ability for AI to greatly impact the American lifestyle in such drastic ways as fully autonomous cars.
	A large problem with the dream of fully automated cars in the near future is not only older generations of people, but also older generations of cars.  There are estimated 250 million cars on the roads today from several decades with various levels of integrated technology.  The technology for self-driving will likely be quite expensive, meaning most will not be able to afford it.  Therefore, the AI will have to deal with many bad drivers in cars that they possibly will not be able to interact with as well as their same generation.  Also, the article implied that driving was an unnecessary hassle and allowing commuters to do other things is the obvious choice, but many people enjoy driving.  However usually not on congested freeways, which is where the ability to let the car drive would be most useful.
	The personal differences also apply to the AI application of personalized internet experiences.  In some cases, the personalization is nice because I see things that are relevant to me, but in others I feel like I may be missing out on some things since it could be narrowing my experience of the world to what I have already expressed interest in, rather than opening me up to new experiences and knowledge.
	Overall, the practices and applications of AI are extremely impressive, and we will see more uses in the coming decades.  However, the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence has some very high hopes and accelerated timelines from what may be probable.  The technology may reach those highs, but it is unlikely that society will be able to adapt to extreme changes quickly enough for things like self driving cars to be the norm in a few years.
