As the first report of The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence (AI100), “Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030” considers the likely influences of AI in a typical North American city by 2030 and focuses on eight most salient aspects which include transportation, home/service robots, education, healthcare, low-resource communities, public safety and security, employment and workplace and also entertainment. However, although this report is comprehensive and illustrates how our lives in future will be affect by advancements of artificial intelligence from various perspective, it may overestimate the influence of artificial intelligence by the year of 2030 due to concerns regarding not only affordability but also privacy and accountability. To begin with, although artificial intelligence indeed has the potential to improve lives for individuals around the world, not all people will be able to purchase services achieved or provided by AIs at least in the near future. Let’s take the facial recognition security system for example. Nowadays some individuals are starting to replace keys with facial recognition system to get into their houses. However, while facial recognition is more reliable and makes it unnecessary for people to bring their keys all the time, the implementation of such advanced facial recognition system cost much more money. Given today’s relatively high price of such facial recognition security systems powered by artificial intelligence, people with low socioeconomic status may not choose to purchase such systems after considering the costs and gains or may not be able to afford such security system at all. Hence, the fact that not all people are able to afford services achieved by artificial intelligence may slow the large-scale adoption of AIs. In addition, assuming all individuals around the world have the ability to afford artificial intelligence devices or services, there are also concerns regarding privacy of individuals. Artificial intelligence tools that can scan social media to search for certain types of views or opinions indeed exist. Admittedly, such tools can be used by governments and law enforcements to monitor and prevent potential violent public actions effectively and efficiently. Nevertheless, such surveillance also violates people’s privacy and harms the safety of private data. Besides, many banks nowadays use AI algorithms to calculate default risks or credit scores for account-holders. Although the report suggests that private data such as race or gender could be chosen not to be a factor of algorithms, it’s undeniable that there are many other factors that still correlate with gender or races and the inclusions of such factors may still violate people’s privacy. As a result, individuals may not accept the utilization of artificial intelligence until concerns regarding privacy are addressed.Furthermore, even though affordability and privacy are no longer concerns, the issue of accountability may still have negative influences on the employment of artificial intelligence. The study suggests that self-driving cars services may eliminate the need to own a vehicle. However, although self-driven cars are expected to make it much easier and safer to travel, who should be held accountable if a self-driven car fails or crashes, given the fact that current legal system doesn’t have comprehensive laws to address issues about the liability for accidents involving self-driving cars? Therefore, rules and regulations about artificial intelligence must be carefully designed and enforced before devices with artificial intelligence such as self-driven cars are applied in a large scale. 