	The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence provides a great groundwork for the understanding of A.I. and 
the vast amount of benefits that it could potentially provide to our everyday lives. However, there are some points that are overlooked 
in the study or that have unreasonable expectations, namely, in transportation. In this essay I am going to challenge their view on 
autonomous cars, flying vehicles, and the legal issues that come along with these new forms of transportation.
      	In the Stanford report they reference an article predicting that there will be 10 million autonomous cars on the road by 2020. 
I think there will be multiple factors that will make the transition to autonomous cars slower than they think. The first being that it 
is going to be hard for a lot of people to put their trust in technology. Although I do agree with the report that self-driving cars
would be much safer in general than the typical driver. Another thing that I think will slow down their progress is their ability, or 
inability, to make tough choices. Let’s say a child runs out in front of a self-driving car and the cars only option is to either hit 
the child or swerve off the road and hit a tree, what is it to do? This along with many other potential obstacles will make the goal 
for 10 million autonomous cars a challenging one.
	Along with autonomous cars the report also mentions flying vehicles. It doesn’t say a lot about this topic but it does say that 
it is reasonable to expect flying vehicles by 2030. Although there may be prototypes out for flying vehicles, this still seems like a 
very outlandish claim. It’s safe to assume that these vehicles would be autonomous due to the fact that trying to receiving proper 
training to safely fly one would be extremely rigorous and unrealistic. One can only imagine the price of owning a personal aircraft 
like this so I don’t really see it in the near future excluding maybe the very upper class citizen.
	The point that I think will be the most difficult for up and coming autonomous vehicles, flying and on land, will be legal 
issues. In the report it touches on the subject of liability, but it doesn’t find a real solution. Who will be the one held accountable 
when a sensor malfunctions and a pedestrian that is crossing the street is hit and killed? If all of the blame is placed on the 
creators of the software this will clearly make them lose their incentive to continue to try and push this new technology if they are 
constantly getting law suits. However, if they are not to blame then who is? The only real and very imperfect solution is for the 
liability to fall on the victim. For obvious reasons this would be a tough policy to pitch to the public, but I think that it would be 
the most logical way to go.
	Although a future with self-driving cars and flying vehicles is one we all might dream of, there are still many obstacles that 
lie ahead before this may become a reality.
	
