        Challenging one hundred year study on Artificial Intelligence

The paper talks about the different fields in which Artificial Intelligence (AI) is used, the problems that are associated with current AI approaches, the ongoing research in the field and how it has impacted the lives of people. The paper suggests that AI will become ubiquitous by the year 2030.

The paper claims that AI will replace jobs thereby making It tough for humans. This was explained with the concept of self-driving cars where AI and Machine Learning play an important part in training cars to drive on their own by learning through test drives. The main idea behind this concept is to make humans focus on their priorities rather than on mundane stuff, that is, they can continue to work while the car drives them to their destination. These self-automated cars are also programmed to park vehicles on their own without human intervention thus simplifying the jobs of humans. This is a debatable claim and cannot be accepted wholly for the following reasons: (i) They are expensive (ii) Even though self-driving cars can drive well, they cannot completely take over human drivers’ jobs as they have not yet gained the trust of humans especially after one of Tesla’s automated cars crashed in 2016. This can be elaborated further by the following reasoning (iii) In situations where the car’s sensors detect a group of people in front of it while going at high speed, it would choose to save the group rather than the driver. Thus there is some risk associated with using self-driving cars even though they have been trained for various road situations. Uber and Lyft are still hiring more drivers to cater to the growing customer base.

The paper also stated that usage of self-driving cars would lead to lesser accidents. But there is always the question of how automated cars will behave in rainy/snowy weather. There is a chance that the sensors could get affected by the adverse weather conditions thereby making it accident prone.

Another issue with self-driving cars is security. Autonomous cars, being computers, are prone to hacker attacks and can become unsafe if their vulnerabilities are exploited. Furthermore, getting too comfortable with self-driving cars can make one’s driving skills patchy which would become troublesome when there are any technical glitches and the person has to jump in and take control of the vehicle. 

The paper claims that AI systems can be used in the Health care for patient monitoring and coaching, assistance in surgery or patient care. This can prove dangerous as these machines are only certified based on the already existing surgery practices. In the case of an unforeseen complication, the system/robot may not be able to accurately diagnose it as for starters, it will not know the amount of pressure to provide on the organs while diagnosing. Also, being over reliant on AI systems can cause surgeons to slack off a little, which could prove dangerous in emergency situations especially if there is a technical glitch.

The above proofs show that AI systems have a long way to go before they can take over the tasks of humans. There is a lot of scope for improvement which these systems must attain to gain the trust of humans. There is no margin for error as a single mistake could prove very costly. Extensive research and testing should be done to improve the capabilities of these systems to think like humans.


