	After reading the “Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030” report done by Stanford, there are many compelling arguments as to where artificial intelligence is heading in the near future. I can see many of the ideas presented in this article happening in the next 13 years. However, the one thing that all of these ideas need to have in order to apply to an entire population of people is a lot of data. After reading the section on page 29 about “Mobile Health,” I have some concerns of the validity of the data they will be getting, and how applicable it will be to the entire population when it comes to health records. For some of the population, these records from mobile devices will benefit them extremely well, but only a certain part of the population will receive benefit from this.	If you were to look at the devices that monitor physical activity in today’s age, you would look to certain application on a cell-phone or to devices such as smart watches or fitbits. These devices are great for monitoring the physical activity of people every day, and they can eventually be used with artificial intelligence to help an individual stay healthy based on their own data. However, the people that usually have these devices are people who care the most about their health. With this in consideration, a huge amount of the population will have no data to predict the future of their health, and these are usually the people that will need it the most. To go along with this, these devices only measure a person’s activity throughout the day. Although physical activity plays a huge role in one’s health, their diet plays a big role as well. To accurately predict and measure someone’s health with artificial intelligence, more data would need to be produced than just physical data. 	Health is a huge topic and an even bigger opportunity when it comes to artificial intelligence. If artificial intelligence could be trusted to deliver accurate reports and predictions about an individual’s health, it would have huge implications on the daily lives of a person. If the success for AI applications is the value they create for human lives, applications that correctly predicted someone’s health and programs to improve their health would be a huge success for the artificial intelligence community. I think that in order to have success in this area, health data needs to rely on more than just physical data of the healthiest people in our population. I think health data needs to somehow integrate someone’s diet, sleeping patterns, mental fitness, and physical data of all kinds of people to be accurate. Based on what is out on the market now, all of these things could be integrated to make the health data more reliable. We could use “smart” grocery stores to get a better idea of one’s diet. We could continue using mobile devices to accurately measure a person’s physical activity, but incorporate this data tracking more into mobile phones instead of using fitbits. We could track someone’s sleeping data by a device, or maybe someday we will have “smart” beds that do that for us. All of these things are reachable and I think they would have huge implications on the accuracy of AI prediction models. Mobile devices to track health won’t be enough to have success in the year 2030. 