AI is now a very big part of our technology, economy, and society, but at the same time it would be wrong to say that it causes no harm to the humankind. In this article we see that the Study Panel of One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence “found no cause for concern that AI is an imminent threat to humankind” (page 4). This is just a statement with no backup proof explaining how all the other points that are “the more fantastic predictions for AI in the popular press” which are against AI are wrong. AI affects humans in a negative way in many different aspects. AI is integrated into systems such as smartphones and laptops that attract humans more to these devices. It has become a cycle for everyone to get eyesight from the bright light of AI products, and be negatively affected in the brain because of radiation from smartphones. To dwell even deeper, we are not far away from the saying that technology is making the human race stupider. With so many different tools handy at just a touch away (such as calculator, compass, dictionary, translator, etc.), we as humans are not even using basic intelligence for such small tasks. Soon, if not already, education will have no value because everything can be demonstrated for learning on the web, and forgotten the next day. This is a very serious issue that can destroy intelligence of humans.

Thinking ahead, robots and self-driven cars are bound to happen in the near future. For one, these take the aspect of physical activity away from us. We will start to rely on robots and self-driven cars to do even the trivial of all tasks such as getting groceries, or grabbing the remote control to a TV that is 7 feet away. This will turn into a very physically-unhealthy habit that runs in a cycle for most/all humans. Secondly, these robots and self-driven cars could be hacked and programed to harm other human beings either at a small or mass rate. Robots could be programmed to hurt their owner, and self-driven cars could be programmed to not follow rules that could end up in running over people or other cars. 

AI systems are getting complicated with time. In the future, there will come a time when one is built that could only be operated with the intelligence of the person who assembled it. Meaning, there could come a time when this technology could get out of hand and fall into hands of someone who plans something dangerous for the society, and the rest can’t really cease it because the operations are only known to the creator. 

These all might just seem like far-off assumptions but they are what the future holds. We have already become so advanced in our technology that robots and self-driven cars are not too far away. Artificial Intelligence is doing great things and making the life of a common man so much more pleasurable, but at the same time we cannot ignore the negative effects it brings with it. 
