	Since artificial intelligence has been made more prominent progress, the significant advances bring society as well as people entirely different way of living. Based on long term research and participation in the future use of AI technologies such as self-driving cars, robotics, or physical assistance etc, One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence reports several important aspects in terms of futuristic AI development. In section “AI by domain”, the trend in transportation indeed shows a vapid growth of self driving vehicles. However, the problem of loss of privacy should not be ignored. For Elder care section, using AI provides certain convenience but mitigate the care from people that elderly people truly need. 
	Self-driving vehicles bring people the dream of driving without using real human efforts. This approach is likely to allow people spend less energy and focus more on the business that are more important. The report also shows the self-driving cars could be widely adopted by 2020. However, it also got issue of potential loss of privacy. Using a self-driving car means that we are sharing our movement to the third party companies. This largely violates the individual privacy since many companies will likely to allow the cars to receive and transmit the communicating with data centers. This implies that as customers, their locations can be shared and accessed to people or organizations who could hack into the network. Although according to the article, self-driving cars are likely to bring benefits to people since people don’t have to own a car individually. Shared autonomous vehicles are used as a service can be very beneficial to the environment, the humanity perspective has not been considered strictly. If it becomes to the real thing, the danger of being hacked can happen very easily since there are more and more computer science professionals. 
	Regarding the idea of Elder care, based on the article, home health aides “will grow 38% over the next ten years.” A change in technology to assist elderly persons is unavoidable. Smart devices at home could provide some basic need for people whenever they have the need to support daily living activities. Although these applications are able to monitor and report the health information and replace a lot of labor works, it is undeniably true that some daily care can only be done with better effects by person instead of the machine that simply serves the purpose of transmitting data, reduce the need of facility, etc. For people who are old, what they really need is the comprehensive Medicare to allow them experience the warmth. If we put too much emphasis on the transformation from human labor to artificial intelligence, although the cost can be diminished, people might lose or have less association and attachment with their family members. Although machine learning has been made useful progress, different field still has different scenarios that need to take into consideration. We are using AI to help us accomplish the tasks and improve the performance without humans having to explain how to make it happen. But in terms of customer service perspective, especially when the customers are in old ages and mostly require sophisticated treatment, AI might not be the most satisfying solution. 
	AI definitely renders numerable benefits, like tackling the complex challenges. Now AI can only be told to solve problems that is told by humans. They can also effectively address the problems. However, with certain jobs, they should be able to meet specific conditions to allow humans free their hands without sacrificing certain important things.