	After reading this article, I want to make a challenge about the implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare area. In this summer, I did a research paper, which is about how AI can make more accurate or earlier diagnose. As this article mentioned, there are obvious challenges of AI which include ethical issue, the relationship between humans, and the regulations of AI. Despite these potential issues, AI could bring our society multiple benefits in many domains if people could use AI properly. Moreover, it might change our lives by the implementation of AI. Currently, in North American, many AI programs could improve the healthcare for public. Base on Stanford news, Kubot (2017) reports that the Stanford University already design a handle microscope that could diagnose skin cancer in earlier stages by the ability of image recognition. By the developing of machine learning, deep learning and artificial neural network (ANN), developer use these techniques to apply in programs and let these programs could make responses by themselves from these stimulates. One advantages that AI can do better in healthcare is AI could provide more accurate data-driven number about patients¡¯ report. Cognitive error is one leading cause that cause misdiagnosis, everyone make mistakes during their lives. However, when the mistakes occur in diagnosis, it might cause serious damages on patients. Therefore, by the using of AI in diagnosis, patients could get more accurate diagnosis. That¡¯s one example that I know to shows the benefits of implement of AI. On the other hand, I feel like it might be challenge to implement AI in healthcare.       
	Currently, most AI programs seems could bring benefits into many domains, however, these AI programs are not developed perfectly yet. Until now, our technology still growing and researchers are working on AI. In the future, there might be perfect AI programs which can handle tasks perfectly. Until now, the application of AI is a challenge. Because of the unknow future, it might challenge the developing of AI. First, in healthcare area, AI programs could provide better healthcare in physical, but it might be a problem to take care mental issues. Emotion is one special thing among human, people are emotional needed. If only base on algorithm and database, AI might not be able to fit the mental needs from human. Moreover, it also one big concern from the public that can AI be emotional. Second, I want to challenge the regulation part of AI. Like the article mentioned, AI could help people, however, it might harm people as well. It could be a complex problem when AI programs make a mistake, which one should be responsible. Third, once AI has ability to done most tasks without human needs, will public agree to implement AI, because it might threat their jobs. In the future, if the AI robot could as fully functional as human, what`s the role of human should play in our society. Overall, until now, the developing of AI impacts North American positively. It has the possibility to become next revolution of our society and totally change human lifestyle. Meanwhile, implementing AI should be a concern as well.   



Reference:
Kubota, T. 2017. Deep learning algorithm dose as well as dermatologists in identifying skin cancer. Retrieved from
http://news.stanford.edu/2017/01/25/artificial-intelligence-used-identify-skin-cancer/ 
