Stanford’s One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence provides reflections, updates, and predictions on the field of artificial intelligence and other related fields.  One aspect of this report that I would challenge is in the transportation section on self-driving cars. It states that self-driving cars might be widely adopted by 2020 according to a recent report (p. 19). Though I believe that self-deriving cars and autonomous transportation will be ubiquitous in the future, the year 2020 is very ambitious. Change in such a common space and industry takes time. The study also presents a table with new features of automated functionality in automobiles. One feature is intelligent parking assist system that was released in 2003. Now, 14 years later, many cars have this feature and is practically expected in current models, though it is not necessary to drive and does not impactfully change how driving is done. Self-driving cars, however, will dramatically change the industry and society. Some consumers do not like the idea of having a GPS in their car tracking their location. With that current distrust in old technology, self-driving cars will cause even more people feeling uncomfortable with these new cars. Another reason self-driving cars might not become widely adopted by 2020 is if public transportation becomes cheaper and more efficient. With much research going into developing faster, safer, and less expensive public transportation, particularly trains and planes, they can cause mass appeal to a commuting public. If a major breakthrough were to occur in public transportation before one in the field of self-driving cars, it would be much harder to convince people to purchase self-driving cars. And without momentum and excitement for self-driving cars, it will be hard for the auto industry to start investing in this technology and move to a society full of self-driving cars.
Another point in the report that I would challenge is under the employment and workplace section when is the general perception of the economic impact that artificial intelligence and advanced automation brings to the workplace (p. 38). A basic economic concept is the idea that advancing technology and automation will increase the productivity of an economy. This is true of course, but the technology will replace human labor. A common argument is that new technology may take away some jobs but will create jobs as well. In many cases, this argument holds. However, in other cases it does not and will not. For example, cashiers can now be replaced with self-checkout lines and eventually could become more efficient like having the machine scan the items by itself and interact with the customer. This type of technology would remove far more jobs than it would create. Because of this better efficiency and lack of workers, there could be high unemployment and decreasing tax revenue. If this happened, the government would respond by instituting taxes on automation to encourage the hiring of people rather than machines. This is one way that the integration of artificial intelligence in society is slowed down. Another possible barrier is if a few incidents of artificial intelligence are hurtful or damaging to people like a self-driving car crash. In conclusion, Stanford’s report is and will be an incredible log of artificial intelligence and it is a great resource for understanding the current state of AI. Though there were a few points I felt were questionable, the majority of the report was credible and realistic. 
