                          Self-driving car: an application of AI that is not beneficial to every-one
   Even though the One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence has given collective reflections about AI's definition, applications and future policy making, its prediction about self-driving vehicles appears questionable. The study states on page 20 and 21 that if self-driving vehicles have exceeded human performance and are adopted by society with expected speed, they will bring various societal changes and increase passengers¡¯ comfort during transportation. However, given the uncertainty of driving, self-driving vehicle¡¯s performance during emergency may remain questionable in future, which may impair its public image and stop the pace of adoption. Also, apart from comfort, passengers may also experience motion-sickness while working or reading on their vehicles. 
   Admittedly, autonomous vehicles¡¯ safety will largely increase with sensor-technologies to detect their surroundings and learning algorithm to predict and respond to movements of nearby objects. However, given the uncertainty of objects¡¯ reactions, passengers¡¯ safety is still at stake and self-driving cars need more efforts to win customers¡¯ trust. Nyholm and Smids (2016) from Eindhoven University of Technology in Netherland argue that since drivers may react to the same collision differently, it is still hard for autonomous vehicles to accurately predict another drivers¡¯ reaction, which may change the situation instantly (p.1285). During a car accident, drivers may try to stop their car or steer to other lines based on their own understanding, which may lead to different outcome for self-driving vehicles¡¯ prediction. To precisely predict other cars¡¯ movements, despite learning from previous traffic accidents, autonomous vehicles may also need to analyze other drivers¡¯ status and information at that moment. Also, there are still concerns about autonomous vehicles¡¯ safety among the public, especially during unexpected circumstances, when car models¡¯ algorithm fails to predict actions of nearby objects. According to University of Michigan, Ann Arbor¡¯s research on US citizens on Survey Monkey database, 83.2 percent of US participants are strongly or moderately concerned about self-driving vehicles¡¯ performance in unexpected situations and 73.2 percent worry about its performance compared with human drivers (Schoettle & Sivak, 2014, p.14). These testify that the public are still holding concerning views about self-driving vehicle¡¯s performance during emergency treatment compared with humans. Autonomous car producers may still have long way to go to gain public trust and introduce their products.
   Even though it is possible that customers will purchase their own autonomous cars in future and the One Hundred Year Study claims that autonomous car passengers will have more free time and comport during commutes, their experience may not always be positive due to the motion-sickness brought by reading or working on moving vehicles. Motion sickness is not rare among human beings. In fact, according to Gale Encyclopedia of Medicine, 80 percent of general population suffer from it once in their lifetime, especially people with migraine headaches (¡°Motion Sickness¡±, 2006, Definition section). While reading or working on their laptops in their moving autonomous vehicles, these individuals become susceptible to motion sickness and relevant symptoms. After analyzing causes of motion sickness, Diels and Bos (2016) argue that popular activities in moving vehicles, including reading, responding to emails or engaging with infotainment systems may result in or increase car-sickness due to the discord between motion of the vehicles and our visions on screens or book pages (p.376). As a result, these sensory conflicts on autonomous vehicles may lead to headache, nausea and other uncomfortable reactions on passengers. It appears that even though passengers are given more freedom to relax or work on self-driving vehicles, they may also experience motion sickness due to the moving vehicles.

References 
Diels, C., & Bos, J. Z. (2016). Self-driving carsickness. Applied Ergonomics, 53, 374-382. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2015.09.009
Motion Sickness. (n.d.). Encyclopedia. Retrieved September 11, 2017, from http://www.encyclopedia.com/medicine/diseases-and-conditions/pathology/motion-sickness#1G23451601070
Nyholm, S., & Smids, D. (2016). The ethics of accident-algorithms for self-driving cars: an applied trolley problem. Ethical Theory & Moral Practice, 19(5), 1275-1289. doi: 10.1007/s10677-016-9745-2
Schoettle, B., & Sivak, M. (2014). A survey of public opinion about autonomous and self-driving vehicles in the U.S., the U.K., and Australia. University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute. Retrieved from https://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/handle/2027.42/108384
  