Artificial Intelligence

	As the future approaches where artificial intelligence is being used more and more in our day to day one of my major concerns with the technology is how these machines have the potential to perpetuate biases with their analysis on large data sets. The one field where I see this being the biggest problem is the healthcare field. I can recognize that bringing AI to healthcare could have major benefits. It would allow doctors to stay up to date on medical practices, assist them in faster diagnostics, and most importantly reduce medical costs. But, if designed poorly, also has the potential to preserve some of the existing biases in healthcare. 
	
	According to the Stanford study one of the things that makes AI so special in regards to the healthcare field is the ability and speed it will have in analyzing large data sets. One of the major issues surrounding this is that medical data has historically favored white men due to the nature of studies and clinical trials. Also, there is a major problem surrounding the way that drugs are tested before they go to market. Often, according to the article "Bad Pharma," by Ben Goldcare, drug companies not only buy the opinions of doctors but they also conduct the tests on their own drugs, which obviously creates a major conflict of interest. In turn, this will impact not only women but drastically many people of different races as well. For example, a woman¡¯s symptoms for a heart attack differ drastically than that of a male.
	
	AI will create another problem for healthcare officials because privacy is a major concern surrounding the implementation of AI. Most likely, AI in healthcare will only be allowed if there are strict privacy laws attached to it. With these regulations, the doctors will not be able to see how the AI came to some of the conclusions it came to and furthermore the doctors will not be able to dispel any biases that could be present in the AI¡¯s conclusions and be able to make the correct treatment decision. This could potentially cause doctors to misdiagnose and mistreat their patients which will create chaos in the AI field. The doctors will be blamed by the patients and in turn the doctors will point their fingers at the AI. This could raise doubt in the effectiveness of the AI technology and create further issues if doctor¡¯s request for more access to patient data. Which opens up another can of worms because people desperately want their privacy. People are already worried about the NSA spying on them and it is a major cause for concern in society today.      
	
	If medicine and future medical decisions are based on these already large skewed data sets the only people that are going to benefit from the short addition of AI in the healthcare field will be white males. In order for AI to be an effective tool in the healthcare field there needs to be something done about the already present issues within medicine, otherwise, AI could fail miserably.   

