In the 100-year study by Stanford University on Artificial Intelligence, the panel of experts raise various implications about the rise of AI in the next century. It is emphasized in the study that the society should approach the research and outcomes of AI with an open mind. Moreover, fear and uncertainty about this emerging field will not only impediment its development but also prevent the society to reap its benefits. My disagreement with this approach is that society never moves as a single unit. As the study described intelligence on a spectrum, the same can be said for the people’s views on AI. Some groups might totally believe in killer robots exceeding human intelligence in the future while some people may regard this field as the holy grail of advancement in computer science. Most people will fall somewhere in between. If everybody approaches AI with an open mind, the society can have profound effects. But this is very rare; society has rarely agreed on one thing as a single entity. Instead, researchers and corporations have to create a plan to ease the transition of technology in our lives and helping people work along computers.
Machine learning, computer vision and neural networks has vastly increased AI’s capabilities to improve healthcare. In the study, it is mentioned that AI’s capability to mine through medical data of millions of patients and their health records can train AI systems to create more personalized prognosis as well as treatment options, thereby reducing the workload of a doctor. But, it is a known fact that healthcare disparities exist in the United States. On average, African American people have shorter life expectancy than Caucasians. If developed meticulously, AI can help remove these existing health disparities in the system. Failing to do so, AI can make the worsen the situation even further. Enormous data sets fuel the AI algorithms have existing racial and social biases. An intelligent system developed to make decisions based on this skewed data exacerbates an existing problem along with producing negative health outcomes for minorities.
A third aspect I disagree with is the section where the study highlights that AI will take away a large portion of labor jobs with little hope of creation of newer employment opportunities. Although, it is true that the current advancements in AI have made it possible to automate a large number of manual labor jobs, AI also creates an enormous number of jobs in other sectors. Intelligent algorithms in a computer can allow them to execute tasks very efficiently than humans. These advancements have transformed various sectors and have been an overall boon for the society. Many new jobs that did not exist previously will be created and jobs that require high cognitive abilities (something current AI systems are far from) will be preserved. For example, the increased number of computers and automation in our lives will consequently also require a large number of people with technical skillset to maintain, repair and replace these things. The same can be said for various other sectors. Therefore, AI extends its benefits in the employment sector by creating new jobs and transforming current ones – instead of replacing them. 
 
