      While the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence outlined how artificial intelligence will affect the transportation sector specifically in a North American city in the 2030’s, the study did not fully detail the economic impact self-driving cars will have on a city’s economy. The authors of the study laid out their expectation of self-driving cars in a way that portrayed artificial intelligence in the transportation sector to have exclusively a positive impact on everyone participating in the global economy. The study did not however adequately take into account the fact that so much of the North American economy revolves around transportation.       Transportation is one of the most common jobs across the planet. There are millions of people and their families who rely on transportation services as their main source of income. There will soon be a day where a truck driven by an artificially intelligent software system is far more cost effective than hiring a driver and paying salary, insurance, and taxes. Therefore, within the next few decades, jobs like truck driver, taxi driver, train conductor etc. will all be entirely obsolete. This enormous change in the economy will also happen very rapidly. The study mentioned that nearly every car in North America will come with self-driving capabilities by 2020 (20). This rapid shift from drivers to software will lead millions of people of a work in a trade many have spent much of their lives doing. This in turn will create mass unemployment throughout the entire transportation sector while the major companies involved in transportation like ride sharing companies such as Uber and Lyft as well as taxi companies will see profits soar as they no longer will have to share revenue with drivers. This trend is one that will likely be a recurring theme as artificial intelligence plays an ever-increasing role in our day to day lives.       The One Hundred Year Study brought up an interesting point about artificial intelligence taking over millions of jobs that currently belong to people. The study noted that goods and services will significantly decrease in price across the board which will be to the benefit of everyone. Eventually, artificial intelligence will become capable of pulling away jobs that were thought to be irreplaceable by machines, and eventually few will have to work while the rest of humanity will be left to enjoy the fruits of an artificially intelligent workforce. The study proposed everyone participating in the global economy be provided a portion of income. The study did not however get into the specifics of what a universal basic income would look like in the future, but it also fails to mention what happens to the millions of people that lose their jobs to artificial intelligence before such an income system is set in place. Certainly, a system of that nature could not be implemented directly after the large bulk of employees are laid off. A universal basic income would take years to get off the ground, and the study fails to mention the buffer zone between high levels of lay-offs and the implementation of an income system. While the Stanford study on artificial intelligence is impressive and necessary, there are many important aspects of the economy that AI will affect that the study fails to mention.      