One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence paints an optimistic future, full of promise for artificial intelligence. It outlines the potential to improve all aspects of life and gives examples of how far we have already come. The article combats misconceptions about what artificial intelligence is, and the unlikelihood of it posing any real danger to humans in the foreseeable future. Where the article makes it’s largest mistake is that they expect a logical response from the public and the government moving forward.
 To expect a public that lacks a fundamental understanding of something, with as much potential to impact their lives both positively but also negatively, to make the correct decisions for the future of AI is unlikely. There is news articles almost daily waring of the loss of human jobs to automation. Elon Musk is in the news daily warning about the dangers of A.I., granted that his larger points and concepts are almost never covered, just the fear-mongering threat of A.I. 
Furthermore, to expect a well thought out and rational policy and law from either the federal government or the states is unlikely. It is not a direct relationship, but, if you look at energy policy as guide post for the either the political will or a fundamental understanding to peruse and promote new technologies it’s not looking good. As A.I become more powerful and prevalent there will be misunderstanding and fear and if there is one thing politicians are good at, it is capitalizing on fear and ignorance. A.I. could become an easy scapegoat for the problems of the country.
Fear, misunderstanding, and ignorance about A.I. is largely being fueled by the media. In April, 2017 Vanity fail released an article “ELON MUSK’S BILLION-DOLLAR CRUSADE TO STOP THE A.I. APOCALYPSE”. Musk has been out spoken about the dangers of A.I. but his larger point if often omitted from news articles. He often finishes his argument with the danger comes from it being controlled by a small amount of people. His warning A.I. is the danger of it being controlled by a single large corporation or hostile government. He has an open source A.I. project called openAI, meant to allow access for all, to some level of artificial intelligence. Fear mongering sells and A.I. is already a common subject for it. It should be noted that several prominent A.I. researchers though out the country have been very critical of Musk’s comments. 
For artificial intelligence to have success in the larger roll laid out in One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence there needs to be an effort to help the general public have a fundamental understanding of what the term A.I. really means.  We are poised for a large jump forward in what A.I. is able to do for us, and when that technology become an active part of everyday life, the public perception of what A.I. is and is capable of needs to be a positive one. When average daily jobs start to be lost to automation, people need to know there is a plan in place and that they have a place in the future. 
