		AI system may not be widely used in transportation system in a short time
	The report mentioned that autonomous transportation will soon be widely used and allow people to experience AI for the first time. It will make people¡¯s life more convenient by accruing a more organized transportation system. Therefore, the AI system in transportation will be one of the first domains that could influence people¡¯s opinions on AI. However, some evidence shows that people may need more time to trust AI in transportation than other domains, such as in home service and industry, and widely use autonomous cars. 
	Firstly, high-level artificial intelligence with large-scale and stable hardware support is required to manage the enormous and complicated transportation system. The real-time traffic is changeable. For example, animals could accidently go on the road and disturb the traffic. In that situation, how AI would deal with these animals will involve human thinking, which is a really high level for AI. Also, AI system need to deal with situations like giving way to ambulance and pedestrian running the red light. These ¡°rule-breaking¡± situations happen every day in the transportation system and they require high-level artificial to deal with. However, there should be a process for the development and application of AI. The basic level of AI could not handle the complicated transportation system, so the transportation should not be the first domain to let people get used to AI and trust AI.
	Also, AI system may not improve the transportation system. AI can make the system more organized and reduce the real traffic jam, but it could take longer from one place to another place. The autonomous navigation system has already been used in many cars such as BMW. This system is one kind of artificial intelligence. It can maintain the speed setting by driver and it will also alter its current speed by using radar to sense the distance between the cars around it. One thing need to notice is that the distance between cars will make a trip longer and take more space especially in a waiting lane. There are many situations of stopping cars, it will be difficult to develop an AI that could distinguish all the situations. 
	Moreover, the AI systems would not save the cost of transportation. It requires complete-coverage GPS signals and control signals. Many roads do not have signal covers and there is no signal in the tunnels. It is a huge and expensive project to cover each road and figure out a way to cover tunnels. People could not trust an autonomous car that sometimes do not how where to go. Also, the hardware on the car require improvement. Although there are many sensors such as temperature sensor in cars, to fit an AI system, there should be more professional radar system, sensor system, and computer system to control cars. However, these professional systems should cost more than current system. Therefore, people may prefer modern cars rather than autonomous cars which they do not totally trust.
	Taking all the factors into consideration, people could not trust and widely used the autonomous transportation system in a short time. AI may soon be widely used in home service, such as cleaning robots, and interactive system, which are less complicated, less risky, and less expensive. They could also provide people with good experience with AI.
