Many people fear the thought of artificial intelligence. Hollywood has shown it in a bad light, along the lines of robots turning on humans and causing havoc in society. This is not even close to what artificial intelligence is. Artificial intelligence has the potential to benefit numerous areas of society. As the panel mentioned, artificial intelligence is going to be integrated into society, more so than it already is, sooner than one may expect. But, this is contingent upon human’s trust with this technology. As a computer science major, I know that technology such as artificial intelligence can be trusted; it is a different story with people who do not possess the knowledge that I do. There is going to be a period of time where there is a distrust of artificial intelligence and artificial intelligence needs to prove that it is safe for human interaction. This is most prevalent in the transportation industry. The panel believes autonomous cars, trains, and potentially drones in the future are going to be more common place. “A recent report predicts self-driving cars to be widely adopted by 2020.” I disagree with how soon artificial intelligence will be strongly integrated into individual transportation. 
There are many issues that will arise when the majority of cars on the road are autonomous. One of the biggest issues I see arising is in the insurance realm. When an autonomous car crashes, who is to blame? Would it be the person who owns the car? If it is the person who owns the car, I would not buy the car because I believe I should not be held responsible for something I have no control over. I feel many people would hold the same opinion. Upon further thought, I do not believe this will happen because few people would buy into them taking the blame. However, I do not think it is that far fetched for the company to say the blame is on the person who owns the car. Further, is the company who made the car at fault? This seems like the most logical answer. Seeing as how they produced the car and sold it as a working product. Also, if there is no human input in the autonomous cars, there is no way any one or thing could have gone wrong other than the car itself.
Another reason I do not think autonomous cars will make up a significant amount of the cars on the road by 2020 is the ethics of autonomous cars. When the car is forced to make a decision between potentially hurting the passenger within the car or someone outside the car, whom will it chose? When autonomous cars are available to the public, these questions are going to surface. The makers of the autonomous cars are going to need solid data to show the media. It would be ignorant to think that situations where the car has to choose between human’s lives would not arise.
All of the reasons I have given above were briefly mentioned by the panel, but I believe these issues are going to take longer than expected. Many of the issues are going to have to have legislation passed in each state and possibly even the country. 
