            															Sreyas Krishna Natarajan					
The field of Artificial Intelligence(AI) has been pushing forward the frontier of machine intelligence ever since the beginning. It does not deliver a life-changing product right off the bat. Most inventions, like a calculator, have suffered the fate of becoming commonplace over time and have stopped being considered “intelligent”. Even the definition of “intelligence” continued to change over time. With human intelligence as a measure, even an “intelligent” program such as the Deep Blue program that beat Garry Kasparov, a famous chess player was portrayed as merely using “brute force methods”. Thus, the multi-dimensional spectrum that the study panel proposes to evaluate instances of intelligence undergoes continuous change with time. The factors defining this spectrum, “scale, speed, degree of autonomy and generality” as stated by the study will continue to break new boundaries.

The passage states that “AI is likely to replace tasks rather than jobs in the near term and will also create new kinds of jobs”. As AI continues to automate everyday activities, the need for low-skilled labor will continue to decline while jobs with need for specific skills with increase. For example, about a million people in the US depend on trucking for survival. When Tesla’s self-driving cars become commonplace, a major portion of these people will lose their jobs. Even though AI opens avenues for development and newer jobs, not everyone can acquire these new skills to fill these new jobs. People are used to the idea of earning an income to keep their families stable. There must be government intervention to create awareness among people, educate them accordingly and deciding what kind of social safety nets should be in place to protect them from structural shifts in the economy. The prediction that the economy will become capital driven rather than income driven is very true. The government must make policies such that every citizen reaps the benefits brought about by AI. Concerning jobs, we can only hope that one-day people will wake up and realize that they were leading a barbaric lifestyle of selling their time just to live.
 
As per the study, the application of AI in public safety and policing applications may reduce some of the bias inherent in human decision-making.  This is a bit skeptical as the data fed to the learning algorithms to make such decisions could be biased against to a race or sex. The datasets used should be properly selected as to avoid prior bias or they should be filtered to remove such data. For example, Google Translate which has been a boon to people who don’t know the language uses machine learning techniques on vast amounts of online data and trains algorithms on this data. As machines become closer to human-like behavior, they continue to learn the ingrained bias existing within the patterns of language. They also have the potential to reinforce existing biases as unlike humans, algorithms may be unequipped to counteract learned biases. A recent article on the guardian speaks about an application of AI showing a 50% higher approval of similar profiles if the candidate’s name is European American instead of African American. The reason for this being the historical bias that exists in this world. We need to build AI watchdogs to detect such decision-making. 

Therefore, the implications of the advancements in AI on the society must be taken seriously and proper actions must be undertaken. Govt policies should make sure that the benefits of AI are shared equally among people. Engineers should be mindful while building systems that might have the capability of showing bias against a race or sex.

