	The Study panel believes transportation will be the first place in which AI technology is integrated into everyday life. While I agree with this, point the idea that once the hardware is made safe and robust that it will be immediately accepted into society I do not think will happen. Cars will be smarter and better drivers than humans but this will not lead to people stopping driving right away. There still needs to be major advances in self driving cars to allow for public use. And even when that is possible the cars will be expensive for the public to get. This will cause it to take time for a large population to have access to them. Along with that it will take time for people to trust self driving cars. While self driving cars can make driving much safer for everyone, I question how fast people will jump to trust these cars. Science has been able to prove many things and yet many people still choose not to believe. For example there is still a group of people that believe the world is flat. This was disproven centuries ago and yet some choose to disagree. I believe this could happen with self driving cars. People may choose to not have a self driving car because they do not trust them and want to drive themselves. this can cause the road ways to stay dangerous and may slow ability of scientists to collect data of self driving cars protecting their passengers. Much of the public could ignore this data and say there isn’t enough of it for it to be true. While many would jump at the opportunity to try new technology and a self driving car, I believe more would reject it at first and keep driving manually. The real change that will allow for Smart cars to become the norm is when people stop buying cars and souls get rides from place to place. This will most likely happen as ride options such as Uber and Lyft are already very popular. The Study Panel predicts city dwellers will be the first to stop owning cars which is more than likely. The number of city-dwellers that have cars is already smaller than outside of cities so this change will happen. This change could take decades though. Many people in cities make their living as taxi drivers or even Uber drivers. These people would fight the integration of self driver cars into the transportation industry. The study Panel also introduces the idea that self driving cars could lead to the end of public transportation. this is an idea governments would heavily back but this also means many people would lose their jobs. This is one of the biggest draw backs of many AI technologies. They can replace jobs people do and this means more people become unemployed. The article believes AI technologies could introduce new jobs as well, but in the form of public transportation I don't see where that could happen. I have no doubt in my mind that in the future self driving cars will be the norm. It will be cheaper and safer for everyone. Despite this, it will take years and years of technological advancements in the AI software and years of social change for these cars to actually become the norm. 