	The ‘Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence’ claims that the lack of a precise and universally accepted definition of AI helps the field to, “grow, blossom, and advance at an ever accelerating pace.” While I concur that the lack of such a definition has helped the field to positively change in its study, I would argue that the lack of definition is not the case anymore. It would be more accurate to say that just as the field has evolved, so has our understanding of and the existence of the definition of artificial intelligence. The report claims that the lack of a definition allows researchers and developers to be guided by, “a rough sense of direction and an imperative to “get on with it.”” I believe this claim would’ve been appropriate decades ago. However, the rapid development of AI as a field in recent years would not have been possible without an understanding of the direction in which the research should head to reach a certain goal. This ultimate goal and the existence of a direction to head to it would not be possible if AI did not have an accepted and accurate definition.
	 
	Before we proceed to state the goal of the research of the past few years, we need to properly define AI. A common definition that has arisen for AI is machine exhibited intelligence. However this definition is somewhat cyclic since it uses intelligence in the definition. So how can we separate the definition of intelligence from our definition of AI? We could define intelligence as the capacity to solve problems. In fact the report uses this is a criteria for its vague definition of AI. In its definition of intelligence, it states that a calculator has the capacity to solve problems and can sometimes do so on a scale larger and speed faster than the human brain and so it fits on the intelligence scale. This is not the definition of intelligence it is the definition of efficiency (while the report does not outright state that it considers a calculator to be intelligent, it does state that at one point a calculator could have been considered intelligent). Calculators are efficient machines capable of solving complex problems faster than the human brain, this makes them useful to us due to their efficiency, however a calculator does so using numbers we input. It cannot solve a problem that is not in the form of a mathematical equation. 

	A more accurate definition of intelligence would be the capacity for logic, learning, creativity, reasoning, and perception. Using abstraction, assuming that the words we have just used to define intelligence are well defined (a problem for philosophers not computer scientists!), we can define the current goal for AI as creating machines that can reason, learn, plan, perceive, or create (an ideal machine would be one that has the same intellectual abilities as a human, artificial general intelligence). 

	By defining this goal, we can understand the path we need to take to attain these goals, not just remain satisfied at the creation of a simple efficient machine and consider it an intelligent being. This ability to know what we are working towards only occurs if we have a singular definition for artificial intelligence. While it is alright to consider this definition as dynamic in nature, it is not fair to say that the lack of any definition for it helps us to develop the field faster. In fact, it only harms our ability to further our research of AI since we would never know what we are working towards.
