The assigned reading is certainly an excellent resource for a beginning introduction to the state-of-the-art research and 
industrial use of Artificial Intelligence (AI).  I have no obvious disagreements with that part of the presentation.  I do,
however, believe that the report underestimates the potential impacts of the development and expanded usage of AI.  
Certainly, I do not believe that we will soon be developing real-life killer robots.  Rather, I believe the authors do not
fully address possible human responses to the expanded use of AI, and the negative consequences that may arise due to 
such responses.
Before I address specific instances of disagreement, I believe that I should first admit any potential biases and my 
general opinion of human behavior from which I am drawing any conclusions.  I believe that humans are essentially 
emotional, often rather illogical, creatures.  We, without careful forethought, can make decisions that we believe 
benefit us most, without care as to how others may be affected.  As any group in humanity is simply a group of humans, 
any group of humanity is often prone to what is seen by an outside objective observer as irrational behavior.
To this end, for example, what is the potential reaction of people to self-driving cars?  I, as someone who prefers 
to feel in control of my own transportation agency as well as someone who simply enjoys driving at times can anticipate 
that some people may simply not want to own a self-driving car.  As another example, the section on the healthcare 
industry reads nearly as a complaint about byzantine privacy regulations.  The authors seem to not consider whether 
there is real, understandable privacy concern, whether could change, and what effect the privacy considerations of 
health-care professionals, rooted in the Hippocratic Oath may have.  In addition, as a general effect of new 
technologies, could negative sociological strife occur due to changes in employment and a further increasing wealth gap?  
Fear of change could induce people to behave rather irrationally.
In fairness, the authors readily admit concerns may arise from the use of AI in new technologies and propose 
research to address potential social and policy concerns.  I do, however, believe that they fail to state the 
importance of such research and do not appropriately warn that negative effects could arise.  In part, I believe that 
their focus on a “typical North American city” hampers their conclusions here.  While we may be seeing a new boom of 
economic activities in cities, this will be due to the interconnected nature of the economy have effects on other areas.  
The political response, of such areas, at least in the United States, is critically important due to the nature of 
American representative democracy (i.e. single-member first-past-the-post districts, overrepresentation of rural areas 
in the US House of Representatives, US Senate, and Electoral College).  This at least, is important to how state and 
federal regulations (which the authors discuss) will affect the impacts of expanded AI use.
I feel, also, that some of the presentation is due to the authors, from my impression, being top scholars and 
industrialists in the field of AI, and thus, highly trained scientists.  In my previous experience, I have read 
scientific literature, and I feel that the field requires scientists to try to present definite conclusions and avoid 
admitting any ignorance on a subjects such as economics, sociology, and health care policy.  This, I feel adds to my 
dislike of the presentation, as well as my personal belief that society will certainly partly fail in mitigating the 
negative consequences of new technologies.
