In the report “Artificial Intelligence And Life In 2030” written by One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, AI, in general, has been discussed how it might be developed as well as how it might change our daily lives in the future. In my point of view, although I greatly agree that many tasks and aspects of our lives will be inevitably greatly enhanced by the utilization of Artificial Intelligence, it is not the case for entertainment. In the article, it is stated that “AI will increasingly enable entertainment that is more interactive, personalized, and engaging.” To be specific, the application of Artificial Intelligence into the classic sport, which is happening more and more over time, will eventually destroy and suffocate many games, especially those that require a lot of thinking process. This writing will be focused on how Artificial Intelligence has drastically changed the nature of classic chess into modern chess as we see today. In 1997, IBM’s Deep Blue (a chess engine using Artificial Intelligence and self-learning to improve itself) beat chess master Garry Kasparov. This is the first time a program beat a world champion at chess under normal tournament rules. Before this event, chess players usually trained to play better and focused on how to defeat other players. They had always been looking up to another person as their opponent. Thus, there are many different strategies, many game plans, many openings and many traps were created for the specific purpose of defeating others. On the other hand, after 1997 when Garry Kasparov was defeated, the way chess players train themselves has been changed radically: they started playing with computer, training with computer, and eventually using computer to analyze how they can perform better for every move. The computers tell them the best moves for each position and evaluate many different possibilities.  On top of that, chess engines also do the heavy job when helping players study and analyze the weakness of their opponents’ strategies. This process used to be too time-consuming that it was often neglected by most players. However, with the aid of chess engines, it’s not a job you have to commit anymore. With the help of technology, professional chess players have, undoubtedly, improved a lot. According to chess.com, post-modern chess players, make much fewer mistake moves comparing to their precedent acquaintances. As a result, modern chess players tend to play much safer and does not take risk anymore. They play the most optimized way according to how they remember from the chess engines. “Top competitors who once relied on particular styles of play are now forced to mix up their strategies, for fear that powerful analysis engines will be used to reveal fatal weaknesses in favored openings.”(Viswanathan Anand, 2013) In the World Chess Championship 2016 final between Magnus Carson and Sergey Karjakin, 10 out of 12 games are draw because both players don’t want to risk and end up losing. Thus, while Artificial Intelligence helps optimize the players’ ability, it has gradually made the game much more boring. In the end, while I totally agree that Artificial Intelligence will greatly improve many aspects of our lives, it will also make many entertainment games like chess become less entertained. 

