	According to “Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030” report, various fields in humans lives are rapidly changing due to the fast development of artificial intelligence (AI). However, there are several points worth-noting that the report might be too optimistic with the positive effects of AI to human beings.

	On page 40 of the report, it states that AI may eventually make entertainment more interactive for the users. However, on page 41, the report also claims that the most important factor of a superior form of entertainment requires social interaction, such as friends. It contradicts itself because the current AI technology does not have the same capabilities of a real human being. That is, it is not real intelligence. Eventually, the AI technology that currently developed today are all based on recognizing data, no matter it is computer vision and language recognition, and search through a whole list of possible responses with statistical methods in order to properly respond to the users. In terms of entertainment, this really does not make the experience good enough. The examples mentioned in the report include World of Warcraft and Facebook, which the report lacks sufficient details with the AI application and usage in these popular software. Is it the AI of the non-player character in world of warcraft makes the virtual world attractive? Facebook attracts a great number of people because of the relationship between people. That is, the nature of sharing. It may be questioned the effectiveness and role of AI in these entertainment whether it is a social media site or a game because the value of entertainment is social interaction and AI may not enhance the experience to a large extent until real intelligence (understanding the brains of humans) is developed. Therefore, the real effect of AI on entertainment may be doubted based on the information given.

	In terms of mobile healthcare on page 29, the report misses serious consideration of the future of mobile health. It is stated that AI can extract data from users and analyze it with helpful feedback given to the users. However, the accuracy and reliability of the data should be evaluated seriously especially healthcare is one of the most important aspects of human lives. Even if the data gathered from mobile phones are highly accurate and reliable, there must still exist some errors. What if the errors from the healthcare app seriously disrupt one’s normal life? For instance, one receives notification that he/she might have something wrong while he/she indeed does not. There are still potential uncertainties with mobile apps but healthcare is one of the services that should not encounter many errors. Although the report (page 46) also has discussed the overall liability of such errors in AI application that those responsibilities may count towards companies and certain laws may even be enacted to attribute the liability of AI, the broader question may be asked is if humans are ready to accept and recognize the role of AI in the society and if AI and humans can co-exist well without causing any major social concerns and issues.

	Artificial intelligence may still have a long way to go as researchers continue to invest more money and time but there are points that the society could have already started to consider including the overall role of AI in the society. At the same time, we as humans should not only see the potential large benefits that AI might bring but also the limitations of our current technology.