In the “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” conducted by Stanford University, they propose that if AI systems take over jobs that currently require human labor, then the everything will effectively be cheaper and easier to acquire, “Because AI systems perform work that previously required human labor, they have the effect of lowering the cost of many goods and services, effectively making everyone richer” (AI100 39). They believe that as AI takes over employment sectors, safety nets might have to be put in place to provide basic income, and other social services to everyone. These propositions seem to paint a Marxist picture where socialism is our only option for the long term. I think that socialism would only be required to support the generation of workers replaced by AI. I think that AI will ignite an intellectual revolution where intellectual capital propagates wealth, and separates financial classes. I believe that education, training, inventing, and innovation will not only mitigate the effects of the sudden shift in the economy, but give realization to a different Marxist picture that fantasizes less about leisure and wealth, but more on competing to realize better ideas that improve our societies. I essentially think capitalism should be maintained to preserve the effects it has on driving society forward. 	I also disagree with the report’s proposition that as self-driving cars become more prominent, people will own less cars and move further from their jobs, “As cars become better drivers than people, city-dwellers will own fewer cars, live further from work, and spend time differently, leading to an entirely new urban organization” (AI100 7). I don’t believe that transportation is the main factor that would decrease the population density of a city or even cause an internal migration of living. A city is too complex to infer that ease of transportation is preferable to a shorter distance traveled to get to work. Proximity to other resources in a city also have major influence on people’s choices of where to live. Autonomous cars will not lead to a new urban organization, but instead the way in which they communicate to make transportation more efficient will. I don’t see why the automation of driving would lead to fewer cars owned. If a car is autonomous, it serves as a feature that encourages someone to keep and use the car. If anything, this should increase the demand for cars since it would be a preferable way to travel that would allow you to remain productive during your travel. I don’t think there will be any profound city scale effects due to self-driving cars alone. It is a feature. Cars have always been controlled by people. The only difference now is that they aren’t controlled by people, but people still ride in them, therefore they serve the same purpose. This leads back to my point where I believe that, how these autonomous cars communicate will create a new urban organization. As self-driving cars become more prominent, the system of transportation will become more efficient since important data can be collected to make traffic systems more efficient. Route planning and distribution of traffic throughout a city will solve traffic problems and provide more efficient routes for users. The network of self-driving cars is what will change urbanization and urbanism, not the feature of automation itself.	