　　The research and application of the artificial intelligence are booming at present.  From past 50 years to present, AI research and application has been studying and improving by scientists. The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence studies the influences of AI on eight domains, which reflects different AI in different challenges. It studies the development of AI in the past 50 years and improving tendency in the next 50 years. However, it also mentions that all sorts of aspects of AI have concerns and risks. Facebook designed an AI machine, called ＾chatbot￣, which could negotiate and communicate with each other via using own non-human language. This progress was breathtaking and profound, but it also existed potential risk so that the program had to be shut down. People are still scaring the development of AI because of privacy and safety concerns, but reasonable and effective utilize AI technologies will improve how we can live.　　AI technologies have ethical and social issues, which result in unease for people who worry about losing jobs once the AI machines become smarter. AI machines are already and will replace some human position such that clerks, drivers, and manual labors. Moreover, artists and speakers are fear that their job may be edged out by an AI machine. People cannot be good at art and science concurrently, and they also cannot be good at writing and speaking concurrently. However, amazing AI technologies can be trained to connect art and science in order to draw better pictures, or trained to write and speak well. Therefore, AI may cause tragic consequences for people at present or in the near future. Nevertheless, if people change a point of view, they could find that AI will help them to improve the jobs and make it easier, rather than displacing them. AI machines are able people to access a creative method to blurry the line of art and science. In addition, for speaker, AI technologies can simulate virtual audience and environment, which resemble reality and reflect real human emotion, so that they can get effective feedback to improve their speech. There are many practical benefits for people to research AI technologies.　　Expect privacy concerns, the safety issue is also a significant reason for people to opposite AI technologies. Driverless cars are already used at present, even if a usable range is not widely. The problem is safety for driverless cars, which is easy to be stolen once someone master computer skill well. In addition, if AI machines are enough smarter, which have their own non-human language like chatbots and programmers or human do not understand, they will connect the entire world AI machines by wires, and figure out how to analyze and cooperate with each other. They may think that human is threatening and would like to displace them. Therefore, it is unforeseen dangerous in the future if advanced AI machines are continuously developed. However, only if programmers proceed with caution and closely monitor when they research AI technologies, benefits from AI technological are greater than what we give up. Driverless cars reduce the rate of car accidents and solve the elder who is difficult to drive cars or people who cannot drive cars.　　Although developing AI technologies could cause unpredictable tragic risks, which have privacy and safety issues, giving up the development could cause greater losses. The evolution of AI technologies is a huge step for human in the future, so do not hinder its improvement. 