      The Stanford 100 Year Study on Artificial Intelligence provides an in-depth look into how 
the top Artificial Intelligence (AI) professionals believe AI should be implemented. Though the 
report does touch on the importance of democratically implementing AI in order to benefit 
everyone equally, this will be difficult to accomplish without stern government regulation. Elon 
Musk recently addressed AI’s potential risks by saying, if left unchecked, AI “will follow the will 
of people that establish its optimization function, and if that is not well thought out, it could 
have quite a bad outcome."
      Economic inequality has only gotten worse in recent years. the top 1%, on average, earn 
three times as much, today, ($1.3mil) as they did in the 1980’s, while the bottom 50% of the 
American population earn an average of $16,000 (which hasn’t risen in over three decades). 
Without the government regulating how corporations implement AI, nothing would stop them 
from using AI to continue widening this economic gap.
      Furthermore, the types of jobs AI will replace first aren’t the most glamorous, but they 
do currently allow people to make a living. The authors of the report claim that they, “see AI as 
replacing tasks rather than jobs, while also helping to create new kinds of jobs.” While it is true 
that AI will produce a lot of high-level tech jobs, it will be hard for entrenched professionals to 
pivot into a new job if they’ve been replaced by AI. Truck drivers are a prime example. Truck 
drivers commonly have very few transferable skills; when they are inevitably replaced by 
autonomously driven vehicles these drivers will be forced into a job market that sees no 
value in their past work experience. It doesn’t stop there either, receptionists, librarians and 
even highly regarded professions such as radiologists will face the potential of being 
displaced by AI. 
      So what happens to these displaced workers? Surely some will be able to pivot into 
new jobs, but those who can’t will become unemployed. When this reality settles in, those 
who have been displaced will develop a distrust of AI because they will feel as if AI has 
robbed them of their ability to make a living. Combine that with the fact that a considerable 
portion of the public already distrust AI, and this could lead to serious morale issues 
regarding funding and implementation of AI. This distrust is exactly what the Stanford AI 
project set out to improve.
      Thankfully, one of the main goals of a government is to create jobs for its citizens. 
Programs to help teach displaced workers new and valuable skills is one way to help ease the 
transition to AI. Additionally, government regulation can help mitigate job displacement by 
finding new value in human labor to create new jobs that AI can’t replace. It’s hard to say for 
sure what these jobs will be, but experts predict that implementing AI will require new jobs 
regarding, sensor technology, “managing corporate social media plans, creating new 
products, improved user interfaces, novel devices and fresh ideas.”
      Finally, the government must ensure that the power of AI is used for the good of all. 
The implementation of AI is inevitable, it’s up to the government to ensure that the right 
people are in charge of democratically implementing this powerful technology.

http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/22/news/economy/us-inequality-worse/index.html

https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2017/07/17/musk-government-needs-regulate-
artificial-intelligence/484318001/

https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/jobs-artificial-intelligence-will-replace
http://www.pewinternet.org/2014/08/06/future-of-jobs

