       Artificial Intelligence is inarguably changing the way people interact with each other and the world in which they live. Whether many of its affects are to the benefit or detriment of mankind is yet to be seen, but certain disruptions may have a more negative impact than others.  One industry that artificial intelligence is currently disrupting is that of transportation.  This article claims that self-driving cars will “displace the need for public transportation.” Mass public transportation is used by much of the country and through several forms including busses, subways, and etc. Stating an overhaul of this system is a large measure to undertake, and it is arguably not a viable solution for everyone. This statement may hold true for those who are wealthy, enabled, and privileged but the majority of the modern world cannot afford the luxury of self-driving cars.
       Self-driving cars have a long way to go as far as accessibility is concerned. There are some self-driving cars on the market designed for those in wheelchairs, but the majority do not have features to help these people whereas public busses have designated seats for the disabled and for those who are elderly. Obstacles exist that separate those who are poor from self-driving cars, even if we came to the point where self-driving cars have become commercial.   To reserve a self-driving car, one must use a smartphone. Those who cannot afford a more expensive phone and Internet data thus would not be able to remotely reserve a ride. As the transaction happens online, a credit card is also required. People who do not have access to credit or online banking are thus faced with yet another barrier to self-driving cars. Concern arises that, in the case cities begin to fund self-driving cars in lieu of mass public transportation, self-driving car companies could at any point decide to discontinue the contracts and leave large amounts of disadvantaged people without reliable transportation.  
       Ignoring other barriers to the replacement of mass public transit with self-driving cars, population dense areas have little space on the roads for everyone to be in spacious cars of his or her own. Busses can hold significantly more people per square foot than the typical self-driving car. Particularly two story busses, such as the double decker Megabus, have a large advantage over Tesla cars in this regard. Replacing current transit systems such as these busses and trains with the currently existing self-driving cars could easily lead to gridlock in high traffic areas.  This also assumes that it would be economically viable to remove the infrastructure of previously existing underground subway systems and busses. Current mass public transportation systems operate using predetermined stops where several people can board at a single time; picking up people minutes apart (for convenience’s sake) then dropping them off sporadically would be a time consuming process, which is especially true if self-driving cars were designed to hold more people in an effort to compete with mass public transportation.
	In a situationally ideal world, with a low population density and able, affluent residents, there could be arguments that self-driving cars may be rational choices. However, most of the country (and world) does not fit into this narrow category. Artificial intelligence and self-driving cars have a significant amount of necessary improvement before permanently displacing mass public transportation.
