The Stanford 100 year study on Artificial Intelligence does a good job of defining AI and explaining why the term encompasses more than one simple definition. It also summarizes how AI is used in our everyday lives and paints a picture for current and potential future uses and fields where it could be utilized.
While most of the 52 page study is descriptive and discusses factual information, a few significant assumptions and overstatements are made.
My first questions are posed by the following quote from the report: "As cars will become better drivers than people, city-dwellers will own fewer cars, live further from work, and spend time differently, leading to an entirely new urban organization. Further, in the typical North American city in 2030, changes won’t be limited to cars and trucks, but are likely to include flying vehicles and personal robots, and will raise social, ethical and policy issues." Self-driving car technology is mentioned throughout the report and used commonly as examples. The authors of the study are overly optimistic as to how fast this technology will be able to advance. While personal robots are gaining traction relatively quickly, it is especially a far cry that flying vehicles will be commonplace by 2030 especially to the proposed extent that they will raise policy issues. The study mentions that self-driving cars were theorized as early as the early 2000s but didn’t start gaining much traction until around 2015. Yet, self-driving cars are to be seen as more of a luxury at present; they are far from affordable and not in common commercial use as of yet. Tesla and Google are still in the process of optimizing this technology to attempt to prepare it for more public and practical use. Seeing that it has taken 15 years for self-driving car technology to see a serious push in interest, it will likely take as much if not more time for commercial flying car concepts to see life. 
At the current rate, this hypothesized “new urban organization” isn’t likely to take place till around 2035 or 2040 as finances will also pose an issue. It is likely that only the wealthiest class of people will be able to afford this new AI until then, and the study makes a significant assumption as to how self-driving cars could change our lives (or not). 
The study’s overstatement of current car technology is further outlined by the following quote: "Current cars can park themselves, perform adaptive cruise control on highways, steer themselves during stop-and-go traffic, and alert drivers about objects in blind spots during lane changes." While it is true that this technology exists, it is rare technology and not commonplace in today’s vehicles, rather only in higher end more expensive models and makers. As such, it is apparent that the study over-generalizes the present technology and theories about how it affects society and will affect it in the future.
Finally, the study understates potential economic impacts and security issues of growing AI technology as a whole. It mentions that AI will cut costs and help the economy by making many current jobs automated and provide more precision but it overlooks other potential economic and societal consequences such as many people losing their jobs, leading to unemployment and decreased purchasing power, weakening the economy. In terms of security, at the current rate of growth in the field of AI, it is that much more essential that researchers focus on limiting certain aspects of robots and AIs to prevent them from becoming all powerful and indestructible. 
