Artificial Intelligence is an extremely diverse field with numerous applications, and the “Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” sheds light on many of them. The article states how artificial intelligence will have numerous benefits that improve aspects of life, but fails to mention the impact that artificial intelligence could have on the employment of the public. As technology becomes more “intelligent”, automation and intelligent-algorithms will take the place of numerous existing jobs. The article also states the possible applications of artificial intelligence in the education sector without considering the disadvantages of doing so.

	The article mentions the application of artificial intelligence in transportation. Its initial applications would be self-driving vehicles for delivery, services, public transportation, On-demand transportation, personal transports etc. These industries employ millions of people worldwide. It won’t be long before traffic system management and monitoring, manufacturing of products, etc are also run by automated-intelligent systems. In the US alone, only transportation and its related businesses contribute to around thirteen million employees. Although experts say that technologies generate as many jobs as they occupy, in the case of transportation artificial intelligence stands to replace nearly every step of the transportation industry and make it entirely automated. This will not only take away numerous existing jobs but will most likely fail to create the same quantity of jobs. Thus, application of artificial intelligence in transportation could leave millions of people unemployed.

	Advancement of technology has always had an impact on labor demands and artificial intelligence will be no different. As artificial intelligence advances the capabilities of machines, the requirements of jobs will increase. More skills and knowledge will be needed for the jobs which will not be taken up by machines. This will mainly affect those jobs that require low to medium skills. As majority of the people are employed at low to medium skill jobs, they will find it hard to keep up with or acquire the additional skills and knowledge required. This will further increase the unemployment numbers. In the US, the unemployment rate is about four and half percent. The application of artificial intelligence to employment could worsen the unemployment percentage.

	The article mentions that application of artificial intelligence to education sector has improved online tutoring and made it accessible to a larger body of students. This though has increased the reach of tutoring, the larger body as made it less effective. In majority of the cases, online credentials are not considered credible. Additionally, the article mentions how online classes are tailored to suit every individual to facilitate learning. One major drawback of this is that by having tutoring tailored for each individual, those individuals do not acquire the ability of adapting to situation, being flexible and dealing with unsuitable conditions. Teaching robots that can be used to teach children will further reduce the human to human interaction of children which is essential, especially at early ages. Artificial intelligence in education comes with numerous flaws that accompany certain benefits.

	Artificial Intelligence is a greatly growing field but with every benefit comes a drawback and these drawbacks must be carefully considered. Applying artificial intelligence in the transportation industry is not worth the increased unemployment and artificial intelligence in education will be detrimental to learning.
