	Stanford’s 100 Year Study on Artificial Intelligence details the plan for a 100-year investigation into Artificial Intelligence and its effects on people, communities, and society. To assess the progress and state of AI the Study Committee forms a study panel every five years to review advances in the field and predict what may be on the horizon. In addition to technical aspects of AI, the study plans to include details on societal facets of the AI issue, such as ethics and economics. 	The inaugural study panel was formed in 2015 and consisted of seventeen AI experts and other scholars versed in AI from a variety of fields. The focus of this panel’s study was “AI and Life in 2030” to emphasize that various aspects of AI will not evolve independently of each other or of other changes in technology and society. They divided their analyses into eight domains in which they believed AI may have relevant impacts and considered how they may manifest in an average North American city. These areas are transportation, service robots, healthcare, education, low-resource communities, public safety, workplace, and entertainment	The panel offered interesting insights into how AI may affect each of the specified domains and did a commendable job balancing some of the more fantastical possibilities of AI with more conservative estimates of how the technology may actually progress. Overall, I agreed with and was intrigued by an overwhelming majority of their assessments and predictions. However, there were some propositions made by the panel that I disagree with. Specifically, I challenge their expectation that driverless automobiles will have the massive effect they have predicted by the year 2030. Primarily due to government regulations, industry activities to slow its progress – massive jobs in driving, and the lesser educated being unwilling to place trust in AI systems.	I think the panel particularly underestimates the lengths that corporations will go to protect the industry generating their profits from becoming outdated. I imagine many companies and employees in the transportation sector will vigorously lobby politicians to restrict and slow the migration to autonomous driving with legislation and regulation. Freight jobs are one of the most common in the United States, a switch to AI controlled vehicles and handling services could leave millions without employment. I think that the reluctance of these citizens to accept that their job is no longer needed and switch professions will add to pressures impeding the adoption of AI.	They also assert that autonomous flying vehicles will be commonplace, and while small flying drones will likely be more prevalent I do not believe public air travel will as quickly become AI controlled. While autopilot systems are commonplace today during periods of predictable conditions, I think that human pilots will be necessary and desired for far longer than the next 13 years, particularly for takeoff and landing. The variable and complex environment which must be adapted to for air navigation seems to me to be a more difficult problem than automobile travel, particularly in hazardous weather like storms and blizzards. Additionally, it is very possible that it would not be as profitable as the automation of cars, leaving less of an incentive for speedy development.