AI has many prospects for the future that are not being met in the present, namely the use of AI in low-resource communities and for elder care. In addition to these concerns there is the problem that a large portion of our society actively rejects innovations that alter their current lifestyles.
There is some talk in the report about potential solutions to these problems but the solutions would require the collaboration of many different personalities in order to come to fruition. For example, AI systems could be of great use for low-resource communities, but the funding is scarce as it is not commercially viable. AI research is being pushed first and foremost towards commercial applications to increase profit margins. If it is not profitable it is not important in the corporate spectrum, whom fund current research. There are, of course, solutions to these problems that will most likely be solved moving forward, but the problem is that it will take a while for these Good Samaritan projects to see proper funding.
The elderly also do not currently have any AI assistance available, as AI technology has thus far been applied towards commercial interests as stated previously. Understandably, creating efficient AI systems to address concerns of the elderly would require immense delicacy as the elderly are a high risk group. The potential health risks and legal backlash for any accidents could reflect poorly on AI as a whole and push the public away. All said, elderly care still represents a perfect chance to showcase AI technologies and assist in establishing its public image.
There will always be a portion of our society that will reject this change outright. A significant portion of the US population (~12%) still do not use the internet [1]. If the perceived effects of AI reach the levels mentioned in the report (i.e., in fifteen years everyday life will change drastically), these stragglers will be left to the wayside. These people must be accounted for and will still be able to function within our “new” society.
On the complete opposite side of the spectrum, there are bound to be a much greater majority of individuals who will learn to rely heavily on these new technologies. This report speaks briefly about the impending effects that readily available AI technology for everyday use may have on the general public’s social and societal interactions. With help always readily available, and everyday tasks facilitated by AI systems; will the average person become lazier and less involved? Will the public utilize this extra time stemming from having less chores to do, or abuse it? 
In all, AI technologies need to begin to focus on a broader spectrum of issues in order to help society. Funding needs to find its way into more philanthropic endeavor so as to increase its stock in humanity and facilitate AI’s public image. User friendliness needs to be one of the more pressing concerns of all AI systems being implemented. This is vital if a smooth transition into an AI world is desired. 
[1]	http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/12/evolution-of-technology/

