The Implementation of AI in Low-Resource Communities
	People live in a world where artificial intelligence can now be a part of their daily lives. AI is deeply rooted in the lives of people through algorithms of programs or services they use. According to Stanford’s ‘One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence’, AI is starting to be implemented in many areas including but not limited to transportation, healthcare, education, and more. While the implementation of AI can be beneficial to many people, there lies many problems in the process of implementation. In the case of using AI in low-resource communities in the study, while AI can be utilized to identify health concerns and spreading health-related information, there lies a problem of inefficiency.
	Spreading health-related information through social networks using AI is inefficient due to the limited pool of people it will reach and people’s distrust of the internet. Spreading important health-related information to homeless youths and youths that do not trust authority is important, but the approach of reaching them through social networks is delusional. This method only targets a small portion of a population, and many homeless youths may not be reached because they do not have access to social networks. Also, while the information may reach them, it is hard to say people will trust the information they receive on the internet any more than the information that authorities give. The internet is a very convenient resource but many times an untrustworthy resource as well, and people are very aware of this fact. They may not trust the information seen on the internet because that information can also be from authority, just through different means. Therefore, although awareness is important in aiding healthcare in low-resource communities, it is better to take a different approach to spreading awareness instead of using social networks.
	Another usage of AI in supporting low-resource communities is detecting health issues, and there is a problem of implementation and funding. AI has been used in detecting lead levels in children or predicting adverse birth in pregnant women. Although it is important to detect these health issues and would be substantially beneficial to the community, the study did not take into consideration the implementation process. Funds and aid are necessary to implement these systems, and in low-resource communities, they may not have the resources to do so. Although AI will be very beneficial when it is implemented in low-resource communities because it will be utilized amply, the process of implementation is a big factor that is easily ignored. Also, detecting health issues implies that there are already health issues, just like detecting lead levels in children meaning the children were already exposed to lead and are in bad health. Instead of trying to detect health issues that already exists, although it is essential to do so, AI needs to be used to prevent these health issues.
	Low-resource communities have an obstacle to reaching resources or receiving good healthcare and health education, and plans to utilize AI to reduce these issues is encouraged. The inefficiencies that exist with implementing AI in low-resource communities through health-related information awareness and health issue detection are not impossible to eliminate, but further research and thinking must be done to better use AI in situations and environments like such where there needs to be a realistic goal and implementation plan. When AI is in full application in these communities, it will bring great changes to the number of people affected by the lack of health-related information or health issue detection.
