In this article, authors try to express an idea that Artificial Intelligence(AI) will provide solutions to current society and improve living standards and wealth, counteracting fears that AI may contribute to joblessness and other societal problems. However, although authors attempt to reduce people’s fear on advances in AI, AI actually will cause enormous upheaval and evolution in not long time.
The article claims that in the near term, AI will substitute tasks rather than jobs and create new jobs meanwhile. Besides, new jobs are hard to imagine with existing jobs lost. However, the outcome is actually obvious and not ideal for most ordinary people. For example, just imagine there is a factory with more than one hundred million labors, and managers decide to substitute these labors by robots. As a result, previous workers need to learn how to control these robots and there will also be some other new jobs that surround these robots. However, only a small part of labors can handle new tasks and even only a smaller part of these smart labors are needed to complete these tasks. One main reason that we develop technology is to improve productivity and create more wealth with less human resources. Therefore, it is predictable that how new jobs will look like and they will fit only a few people. A large-scale joblessness is inevitable and will come soon. 
The article also indicates although some high profile internet companies have very small number of employees, most companies will have a natural scale of human enterprise in the future as the creation accomplished by AI. This is the point because these technical companies are not the leading actors in this innovative tide caused by AI, on the contrary, they are still the upper class. Ordinary people are the true groups that will be impacted — those organizations and institutions which have a huge scale will be mainly affected because most of their members are human labors can simply be replaced by robots. As time goes by, these huge organizations become ones with natural scale — by the way, this natural scale must be small as most members are eliminated due to AI. This natural scale is actually an evidence that unemployment is the trend. To conclude, a massive unemployment will emerge soon and the fear is reasonable — people should have the right to know truth and most probable situation in the future.
In my opinion, because AI revolution is the trend which cannot be halted and AI does have the ability to substitute human jobs rapidly, the most important work government and technological organizations can do is not to temporarily comfort people that evolution will not come as rapidly as they think, but to provide a living guarantee for their future to help them resist AI’s impact. The serious unemployment problem should be presented because it is a predictable truth in the not distant future; along with it, a reliable policy is needed. Most people work to fulfill their living expenses; if these living demand becomes basic welfare provided by government, people do not need to worry about unemployment. It is a feasible breakthrough point to overcome people’s fear of losing value. As for the problem that whether people must work or whether people must achieve life value, it can be discussed in the future and is not necessary now.