In the essay, the author mentioned the reason why AI has not make it into healthcare space as much as it could is the limitation of technology and the high-stake nature of the usage of such technology. Whereas the technology could be a reason for it, the human nature that carries emotion and cares about being among other beings is the fundamental cause why AI has yet made it deep into our lives.
First off, while AI is good at diagnosing with high certainty percent, it is still a tool with power and without responsibility. It could give an 88% certainty of a disease with symptoms checklist. And then what should the patient do? Doctors, similarly, would give a similar diagnose result based on patient’s symptoms. However, with the responsibility that comes with their profession, doctors would further consolidate such diagnose with empathy and caring responsibility that’s unique to human brain at this state. We could not tell if machine actually cares about a human’s life or it is just purely running an algorithm to match patterns. A doctor would deeply understand the meaning of diagnosing and curing disease for a patient.
Secondly, human psychology suggests we are social beings, which means we tend to trust fellow human beings better than the algorithm that consist of math manipulation and pattern matching. Even though theatrically the algorithm, with its large dataset, could yield a better prediction than the doctors, the patient would still lean towards doctors simply because the human nature. Imagine a person following the Google Map navigation to a certain alley way. If a self-identified “local resident” gives an alternative way and backing it with his/her experience with the traffic, there is a high chance that person would choose the alternative route simply because a human being sounds more trustworthy than an app at current society.
Similar argument could be made towards author’s claim for AI in education. The author believes lack of financial resources and technology advancement are the reason why AI is still not fully integrated into school. However, the most natural way of learning is to learn from a different human being. Our brain has been wired to learn from our parents/surrounding human beings since we were babies. Of course, the amount of resources that is being offer by AI education agent could be larger than a school teacher can offer. But the human interaction that our brain is used to requires the existence of a teacher/mentor who is emotionally understanding and intellectually competent.  Needless to say, the expectation that is being casted on us from teacher serves as a drive for us to do our best. We will probably not feel the pressure from a machine telling us that it really wants us to do well.
All being said, the level involvement that AI could get into our society really boils down to how close to a human mind that AI could get. I believe unless we eventually figure out a way to duplicate or construct a human mind, we could always tell the difference between a real human being and AI. And when that happens, we would start to build trust through an emotional connection.