    The trend that AI will be widespread among different fields in people¡¯s life is inevitable. However, with the increasing use of AI at home or in public places, it also brings hackers convenience to take advantage of any loopholes for committing a crime. Hackers are huge threats for the development of AI. It is true that the field of AI is born initially for benefiting people¡¯s life. One application of AI can even be used for public safety and security. While, once it is used conversely by criminals, the whole public will be put in huge danger. For example, hackers can use AI for transportation planning to paralyze the whole city and control the household AI to reach some goals, such as hurt people. In this article, it does not talk about any countermeasure for this situation but it is important to put effort in the consideration.     The potential threats suggest another aspect, which is the problem of who should hold the technique, governments or companies. In the report, it indicates that the latest technology belongs to a small amount of large companies. However, the governments should concern if any researcher will leak important information to the criminals. One feasible method is that the government hire some experts for regulatory authority to supervise those companies. Furthermore, AI technology may be a measurement of national power. That different countries collaborate with each other at present for the development of AI does not mean they are willing to share in the future. If one side does not want to share the patent, AI is possible to be used in national negotiation. There may remain some problems for the future business of those AI companies as well.     In addition, for the application of AI in medical fields, some barriers hinder the way. For example, for those patients who have mental illness and need communication with professional psychological counselors, those AI-based applications may not able to do their duty for the best outcome. Those patients may not trust AI system because they are just ¡°smarter machine¡±, not human beings, which can be a problem in mental treatment. Take a step back, even if people create some human-like robots, they are still facing the potential problem, Uncanny Valley, a theory that human-like robots can generate the fear of people. Though AI sometimes can perform better in a surgery, in some specific areas, human doctors are still irreplaceable for a very long time.    Finally, the report points out the idea that AI will affect people mostly in middle skilled work, which is not reasonable enough. The population of the whole world is decreasing by estimation, which means that the cost of labor will become more expensive especially in some lower skilled jobs. When the cost of AI machines comes below human cost in a free market, those workers will ultimately lose their jobs. At the same time, if they do not have higher ability to find other jobs, the unemployment of those people will become a big social problem, which may induce crimes and riots.     Overall, ¡°Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence¡± is a very comprehensive report and it is easy to understand by the general public but it also ignores some essential possibilities. 