Stanford’s one hundred year study on artificial intelligence has asserted that artificial intelligence will soon permeate in our day-to-day lives. It establishes the fact that by nature, human beings are social creatures. One aspect of this study, however, states that in eventuality, human interaction will cohabit with machinal responses. The report also believes that it will be integral in our education, relationships, and careers.

One would agree that in terms of convenience, margin of error, and balance between supply and demand, artificial intelligence would be the answer to these issues. In terms of human behavior and dependency, one would have to raise the question of its effectiveness. It has been studied that technology is the source of today’s addiction and dependency. 

Cognitive sharpness rely on human interactions that no artifical intelligence can replace. According to various studies, low social support from family and friends can affect a child’s psyche and physique drastically and can remain into adult life. (https://www.brainhq.com/brain-resources/everyday-brain-fitness/social-life-brain-fitness)

The writer attests that the study understands the uncertainty and the danger of such technology, but it does not further explain that advancements of this kind will also affect and shape on how human beings will behave all over the world. The fickleness of these effects, and depending on how fast artificial intelligence will pervade the temporal fabric, may put mental and emotional development at risk. 

In addition to this concern, the report does not consider outside Western culture, how different cultures can affect AI, and vice versa.

A good example is Japan on how swift artificial intelligence came to Tokyo. Real-life relationships have become less present as single people prefer being isolated and get hooked on simulated dating. So much so that more than 40% of women ages 18 to 34 have made romance gaming become a multi-million dollar industry. (http://edition.cnn.com/2016/11/21/asia/romance-gaming-japan/index.html)

Artificial Intelligence in 2030 also touches on how opportunities will come for the job industry but does not consider third world countries like the Philippines priding itself on its 25 billion dollar BPO industry that will have to struggle and will diminish by 40 to 50 percent of 1 million Filipino employees. (http://cnnphilippines.com/news/2017/09/06/BPO-industry-call-center-Philippines-artificial-intelligence.html)

While artificial intelligence can perfect speech patterns, iterate, and replace task-based vocations, it cannot successfully replicate compassion, kindness, and empathy, traits that humans can only succeed in workplaces and other environments. For example, most people still very much prefer talking to a real human being for customer support than the programs meant to remove human representatives. That same reason can also be extended into why there are still human cashiers even though self-checkout services have become popular in large chain stores. Further isolation through increased artificial intelligence may occur and one would discover too late that emotional intelligence is also quintessential to competition and global success. 

While the future looks promising for artificial intelligence and the study did its valiant effort in fleshing out every pro and con out there, it still requires to look into cultures and economies outside industrial countries.  

“The measure of success for AI applications is the value they create for human lives,” the report states. The writer believes there is one flaw in this logic -- for artificial intelligence to succeed, it has to, even if it is only a part of it, devalue human intelligence.