	The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence paints a vivid picture of what Artificial Intelligence is, where it began and where it will go in the next fifteen years. The article is divided into eight sections in which the panel believes AI advances will be most prominent, describing improvements in transportation, service robots, healthcare, education, low-resource communities, public safety and security, employment and workplace, and education. Overall, the writers describe that AI has great potential, however they also state that this potential is limited in both resource availability and community acceptance. Although I agree that AI’s potential can be limited in some ways I disagree with some of the panel’s views on education, specifically the statement that “quality education” will always require active engagement by human teachers.
	I strongly believe that Artificial Intelligence has immense potential to improve education at every stage of one’s life, and that the disadvantage of lack of social interaction in the classroom is greatly outweighed by the benefits of accessibility, learning flexibility and information availability. It has been proven that, as stated in the article, face to face interaction while learning is crucial when developing social skills and connections in the early stages of one’s life, however as one grows older and joins the workforce these skills have already been learned. This contradicts the idea that active engagement with human teachers would even be needed past the early stages of a student’s life. In addition, many classes at UW-Madison are already transitioning to a classroom style called WISCEL that allows students to learn from video lectures instead of a teacher, and to practice these learned skills alongside each other in a collaborative environment. Thus, students don’t necessarily need to interact with a human teacher to learn, allowing AI to integrate with the modern education system without disadvantages. AI’s most prominent benefit in my opinion is its accessibility to all. No matter the income, education level or location of an individual, if they have an internet connection they would be free to access learning environments such as MOOC’s and reap the benefit of personalized feedback through the use of AI. On top of this, given every individual learns differently, students would be able to study on their own time and at their own pace rather than on the set times of a traditional lecture style. The value of education would be rightfully available to everyone and as long as an individual has the drive to learn, they would be able to acquire crucial skills and join the workforce without a formal education. Given the extravagant costs of higher education, this would save many students thousands of dollars in tuition and open this opportunity to those who aren’t so fortunate to attend a college. Lastly, AI clearly opens an entire world of information that many teachers or college classrooms could not offer with their resources. For example, if a student wanted to learn JavaScript, they could access an MOOC and begin learning instantly with personalized feedback according to their mistakes and learning style, whereas certain colleges or teachers may not even offer courses in JavaScript.
	Overall, AI is clearly revolutionizing the world we live in and can have an incredible impact on education as we know it. With minimal disadvantages to the education system AI styled learning would offer immense benefits to students by providing a great deal of accessibility, learning flexibility and information availability that traditional settings could not.
