There are a couple of points the article makes regarding artificial intelligence and transportation that I do not agree with. In general, I do not think AI will have the impact transportation in North America as quickly as the article is claiming. I believe there are many obstacles that will prohibit wide acceptance of AI in transportation and will prolong the process of implementing things such as self-driving cars into society. As a point in favor of the implementation of self-driving cars, the article claims, “Self-driving cars will eliminate one of the biggest causes of accidental death and injury in United States, and lengthen people’s life expectancy.” I challenge this claim and say that self-driving cars could cause a new creator of stress the United States population does not frequently experience. Many people are familiar with the term “back-seat driving,” meaning someone who tells the driver what to do while they are a passenger in the car. Most people back-seat drive due to the stress and anxiety of not being in control and not trusting the driver to make the right decisions and react appropriately on the road. This anxiety and stress would only be heightened in a self-driving car, where the passenger cannot communicate to the car in motion. The article claims that the passenger of a self-driving car would have more time on their commute to get work done or entertain themselves and relax, but I think driving in a car without any communication or control would cause more stress and the passenger would not be able to focus on anything else besides the road. The article does say that the trust between humans and machines would have to be built up over time, but I think the lack of communication between the human passenger and the self-driving car will prohibit complete trust from ever happening. Another claim the article makes is that I challenge is that “Self-driving cars and peer-to-peer transportation services may eliminate the need to own a vehicle.” Our current society places huge value on convenience with things such as same day delivery and live streaming of virtually any TV channel. For this reason, I find it hard to believe that AI would be able to provide enough self-driving cars to replace the cars that people own themselves. When people need to get to work or school, they don’t want to wait for a car to be available to bring them. If someone is having a baby and needs to get to the hospital, a situation that very rarely requires an ambulance but is still urgent nonetheless, waiting the 10-20 minutes it takes for a car to arrive to them could be crucial. The article continues to suggest that shared transportation could replace the need for public transportation. I also disagree with this for similar reasoning: it is hard for me to see the availability of cars being reliable. With public transportation such as subways and trains that don’t use roads, the schedule is almost guaranteed. I think taking the subway to work every day is much more reliable as far as departure times and commute durations are concerned, compared to a self-driving car on the road where construction, traffic, and accidents play a factor into time of the trip. For these reasons, I think implementation of AI into transportation will take a lot longer than the article portrays. 