Are you a human? Or a machine? I would rather not spend the next few hundred words attempting to discover whom (or what) I am writing to, so let’s move past those questions. Artificial Intelligence is an exciting field to be in—and the “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” does an excellent job presenting the current state of AI. It contains very little embellishment and provides the reader with a solid understanding of where we are in the booming domain of artificial intelligence. However, there are a few statements where I must disagree—namely in the areas of healthcare and transportation.

The healthcare industry can benefit immensely from the integration of AI into their systems. While the report provides numerous examples and applications, it also includes several claims I don’t completely agree with. For instance, in the clinical setting the report states that “a small group of companies control the EHR market, and user interfaces are widely considered substandard, including annoying pop-ups that physicians routinely dismiss” (Artificial Intelligence 26). 

Last summer I completed an internship with Optum, a daughter company of United Health Group specializing in software development and data management for the healthcare industry. While working alongside industry professionals I was amazed by the quality of software Optum was developing for United Health Group. Not only were the programs polished and refined, but they also contained powerful tools for analyzing data. I did not see any evidence of “annoying pop-ups” that the report references. The article goes on to say that “the promise of new analytics using data from EHRs, including AI, remains largely unrealized due to these and other regulatory and structural barriers” (Artificial Intelligence 26).
 
United Health Group (UHG) is by no means a small company—in 2017 the organization was ranked 6th on the Fortune 500 in the United States.  The statement above argues that AI isn’t being widely used for data analytics, however within Optum—one of the largest healthcare organizations in the United States—incredible amounts of resources are being allocated to AI and machine learning. As an intern, I attended “Tech Talk” where Dr. Richard Migliori, Chief Medical Officer of UHG, spoke about AI and its current use within the organization. He emphasized the importance of bringing artificial intelligence into the healthcare industry, making it clear that United Health Group is not standing idly by.
 
Transportation is an area of AI that has the potential to significantly change the way we live our daily lives. Self-driving cars are the future; however, the Stanford report mentions AI being used in flight—something I completely disagree with. Specifically, the report states that “…in the typical North American city in 2030, changes won’t be limited to cars and trucks, but are likely to include flying vehicles…” (Artificial Intelligence 26). 

Recently I completed the necessary training to earn my private pilot license. If there is anything I learned from the FAA, it is that even regulations have regulations. The idea of human pilots landing at the same airport as unmanned aircraft using AI is not something the FAA is going to support willingly. Artificial intelligence may play select roles in aviation, but it will not replace pilots entirely by 2030.

Artificial intelligence is an exciting technology that has a lot of potential in the years to come. For the most part, the “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” is an accurate portrayal of the technology and provides honest predictions of where AI is headed. The only questions that remain are—are you a human? Or are you a machine? 
