Artificial Intelligence is defined as the ability to make machines intelligent, such that, 
they can function appropriately and anticipate and adapt to their environment. AI has advanced
in many fields such as healthcare, transport, education, employment and workplace, and at
the workplace. The Stanford AI report states that self driving cars will become common on the
roads by 2020. According to me, this is not possible and it will take many more years for 
various reasons. Firstly, rules have not been stated regarding who bears the burden if
a self driving car crashes. Companies would have to face huge burdens if only they are the victims 
of the lawsuits, and this would lead to stifling innovation and confidence in self driving cars.
According to author, Phillip Tracy, American roads aren't ready for self driving cars because
of the obsolete infrastructure problems that have existed for more than 40 years. Volvo
cars failed tests at the Los Angeles Auto Show because the car couldn't detect the lines on the 
road as they had faded away. Research scientist, Christoph Mertz, believes if the lines fade
away in any time of the year, cars would be very prone to accidents. According to the
U.S. department of transportation, 65 percent of the U.S. roads are in poor condition. Weather conditions 
could also play a fatal role with self driving cars. Direct sunlight on the signals can confuse the cars.
An accident caused the death of a man last year in his Tesla Model S car because the cars couldn't
detect the side of the truck in direct sunlight and drove under the trailer. The report also 
talks about transportation companies like Uber and Lyft who have helped in making transportation
easier and introduced carpooling. These companies have increased employment opportunities for
drivers but the introduction of self driving cars could cause a major rise in unemployment
in every country. Then there is a cyber threat which can be dangerous in every field. If a hacker takes 
over a driving car, he can easily do anything with the car, putting the passenger at a huge risk. 
These hacks might be untraceable if the car gets damaged so terrorism threat would be larger in 
many countries that are prone to such attacks. Artificial intelligence has also made advances in 
the field of education in the past fifteen years. The report states that teaching robots 
have now been implemented to teach children.There is no guarantee if the children actually 
concentrate in class because they know it's a robot which is teaching them. Human connection
 while teaching is sometimes very important for children and robots might fail to understand 
 what the children are feeling and what they are going through. Integrating robot teachers 
 in the field of education would also lead to unemployment in the field and teaching as a 
 profession would take a huge hit. Although AI can be a huge boon for us, most of its aspects
 have many challenges which would stifle the technology more and delay it. It will be interesting
 to see how Artificial Intelligence manages to become a permanent part of the most important 
 fields and how people adjust to it.