The 100-year report has depicted the transportation as a prime example of the success of artificial intelligence with improved safety, more spare time during the commute and increased mobility of youth, elderly and disabled. However, the artificial intelligence in transportation also faces many challenges from the safety, legal reasons, and social pressure.

Due to the complex environment of real world transportation system, including the factors of pedestrians and too many unpredictable events that are not controlled, safety can be a huge problem to transportation with artificial intelligence. Self-driving can cause death to its passengers. For example, a fatal accident happened in Ohio is involved with the autonomous car from Tesla, one of the leading companies in self-driving vehicles. As told by Tesla, this accident happened because of the ‘technical failure ’ of the automatic braking system, and this ‘technical failure’ raised the doubt of the safety of self-driving cars. Besides vehicle, safety problem of other transportation manner also attracts social attention. One crash of trains happened in 2009 was caused by trains’ automatically train-control system and led to injury, death, and 21 lawsuits. Based on these evidences, we can see that the safety of artificial intelligence is a problem that challenges it.  

Besides the safety, the legal problem is another point challenges the implementation of artificial intelligence transportation. First, all of the current established rules and laws of transportation target to the human driving cars, therefore the cost of reestablish every detail of laws and rules would be a tremendous number for the governments of every country. Second, the law of privacy also plays a role challenging artificial intelligence in the domain of artificial intelligence. As stated in the 100-year report, government and policy maker must address privacy and ethics that public can trust, and this is difficult because the users’ data all connected to the internet servers. Furthermore, determining the responsibilities of self-driving car accident is demanding. Is the manufacturer responsible for the accident? If so, should the driver be also responsible for the accident? Depend on the situation of legal and government reasons, the artificial intelligence in the domain of transportation is still far from fully replacing the current transportation manners. 

Beyond the problems faced by policy makers, social pressure also influences the implementation of artificial intelligence transportation. As mentioned in the 100-year report, artificial intelligence can replace the labors in delivery system, taxi drivers, truck drivers and so on, who can be a large portion of population. Thus, replacing them could cause an imbalance to our society and increase the social pressure. The fact in the 100-year report states that in the United States,  with the advanced technologies, the median income has fallen and the employment to population ratio has decreased meanwhile. Thus, the artificial intelligence can’t be successfully implemented the domain of transportation with the present situation of society.

Undeniably, artificial intelligence has many usages in transportation, but it also faces many challenges. Safety is biggest issue of transportation; however, autonomous cars still make mistakes and can’t guarantee the safety of passengers. Not only the safety challenges, but also the legal reasons have problems of artificial intelligence with the cost of reestablishing rule, privacy and ethical responsibilities. And the social pressure negatively affects artificial intelligence in the domain of transportation too, that the unemployed people caused by AI can be a really serious problem to our society. Thus, the artificial intelligence is troublesome to be implemented in transportation.
