CS 540 sec 2
Thoughts after reading Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence
      After reading the article, there are many thoughts come to my mind. First of all, I must 
say that this article is a very comprehensive report about the current status and future drafts of AI. 
I agree with the discussion about the employment of AI in different areas. Some of the area we 
have already heard every day through news like self-drive cars and home-service robots, but 
others like the health-care system and education system truly refresh my understanding about the 
future of AI application. But in the last part the article talks about the concern of AI 
implementation which I cannot be agreed with. I think these problems will not be obstacles to the 
improvement of AI and they can be solved easily. 
      In the first part of the Policy and legal consideration, the author points out that states law 
and the national law may have conflicts about the definition of autonomous vehicles and which 
kind of autonomous car should be permitted to use. However, in my mind, this kind of conflicts 
are very normal. Just like the law of using cannabis. Although federal law has explicitly pointed 
out that it is illegal to use cannabis in any functions, still, in California and other 44 states, the 
medical cannabis is still being permitted to use. Therefore I believe if the state residents support 
the use of autonomous vehicles and other AI devices, it is easy to find a balance between federal 
law and state law. 
      In the next part, the author talks about the privacy issue that AI may bring. He illustrates 
that when AI is making decisions and predictions, it may take private information like race into 
consideration. However, in my understanding about AI technology, all the information that AI 
can reach means that this information should be taken into decision making. In this way, the 
decision and prediction can be most accurate and useful. If the user truly wants to take some 
aspects out of consideration, then the program designer can design a user mode which let them 
choose specific aspect they want to ignore. For instance, if the user wants to let AI skip the 
influences of the race, he can tell AI about that before it makes the decision. After all, AI 
algorithms are used to help people make decisions rather make decisions for people. The final 
right is still being held by the human being.
      Furthermore, the following part talks about the Liability of AI which I think is nonsense. 
For civil aspect, if people do not intend to cause any harm, the AI self-protect system will 
automatically prevent them from causing any damage to the society. The same idea applies to 
guns. In America everyone has the right to hold guns but since there is a proper protection to 
prevent people from hurting others unintentionally. We don’t need to worried about being killed 
by others without purpose every day. In the future, I have the confidence that we can build well-
designed protect system to avoid unintended damage. For a criminal, the same idea applies. 
There is no doubt that at any time there are people want to cause harm. But this cannot be the 
reason for us to stop developing new technology.  Though new technology may bring 
unpredictable issues, human will gradually fix the issues and get huge benefits from new 
technology. 
      Other concerns being discussed in the report such as Labor and Taxation issues should 
not stop AI from being applied as well. But due to the word limit, I am not going to discuss them 
further. In conclusion, I believe all the concerns we predicted now will be solved during the 
development of AI, and AI can truly bring benefits to human.
      
