	Artificial intelligence is becoming a more and more prevalent science to study and test the
 limits of this emerging technology. Universities, the government, and corporations alike are all trying
 to get their fingers in this field with unknown limitations. The power of AI has yet to be fully
 discovered and that is a dangerous thing. 

	“AI will likely replace tasks rather than jobs in the near term, and will also create new kinds of
 jobs. But the new jobs that will emerge are harder to imagine in advance than the existing jobs that
 will likely be lost. Changes in employment usually happen gradually, often without a sharp transition,
 a trend likely to continue as AI slowly moves into the workplace. A spectrum of effects will emerge,
 ranging from small amounts of replacement or augmentation to complete replacement.”1 This quote is
 fundamentally wrong. 

	Artificial intelligence will most assuredly replace jobs and not just tasks in the near future, it
 will completely replace jobs and create only a few jobs for the numerous ones that they replaced.
 Some changed in employment happen gradually but when artificial intelligence hits the job sector it
 will be a quick and fast transition not a smooth gradual one, taking over many, many jobs in quick
 succession.

	 Corporations and their owners will do almost anything to save money, cut costs, and raise
 profits, that is how the economy works make as much money as you can for as little money put in.
 When a corporations can replace 10 workers with a machine and hire one maintenance man in
 replacement that is a great business move. The money saved from labor and transferred into the
 machines and their upkeep would boost profits immensely. So when artificial intelligence gets to the 
point where it can start replacing workers then corporations will flock to the power of artificial
 intelligent minds to do the work of 10 people for one machine and one maintenance guy to make sure
 everything runs smoothly. The profit margin of 5 maintenance men and 100 artificial minds compared
 to 1000 workers doing the same jobs in vastly difference. 

	Mike Collins in his article about artificial minds taking over the work force called “Will Robots
 Replace Humans” states that there are three limitations to artificial intelligence that we as humans
 cannot create yet because we do not have the understanding or physical capabilities to do so yet.
 Unconscious mind, conscious mind, and emotions, these three things we lack the knowledge to put
 into a machine.2 This statement does not address the key point, robots with artificial minds and
 learning capabilities replacing humans in the work sector. You do not need a robot with these three
 characteristics to replace a worker, you just need to write a script that learns just how the worker
 learned when he himself was learning. 

	
	Artificial intelligence is still in its infancy and has countless possibilities, but when it comes to
 the work force being replaced by the artificial mind beings, corporations will do so as soon as they are
 able in lieu of more profits to line their pockets. 






Bibliography 
1. Collins, Mike. 2014. "Will Robots Replace Humans?" Manufacturing Business Technology
 http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.library.wisc.edu/docview/1629409576?accountid=465.

2. Peter Stone, Rodney Brooks, Erik Brynjolfsson, Ryan Calo, Oren Etzioni, Greg Hager, Julia
 Hirschberg, Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan, Ece Kamar, Sarit Kraus, Kevin Leyton-Brown, David
 Parkes, William Press, AnnaLee Saxenian, Julie Shah, Milind Tambe, and Astro Teller.  "Artificial
 Intelligence and Life in 2030." One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence: Report of the
 2015-2016 Study Panel, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,  September
 2016. Doc: http://ai100.stanford.edu/2016-report. Accessed:  September 6, 2016. 
