In Stanford’s One Hundred Year of Artificial Intelligence, it is mentioned, under the Healthcare Robotics section under the Healthcare title, that 
artificial intelligence will likely not automate a large section of work in hospitals or nurseries in the near future. The report argues that while 
robots will definitely infiltrate the healthcare services, it will only do so by automating low-skill labor. The reason for this is that doctors practice 
many duties which are too meticulous and precise for a robot to accurately replicate. However, this is not true, and we can see many examples in the 
real world right now that prove that artificial intelligence has already significantly impacted the medical field.

There are many technologies that are capable of emulating most of the work of doctors. Consider Watson, IBM’s artificial intelligence robot, which is 
so advanced already that it is on par with a professional radiologist, a profession which nets an annual salary of $400,000. Machines like Watson are 
capable of detecting diseases like Alzheimer’s a decade before any symptoms surface, with an accuracy that regular practiced doctors cannot match. Watson 
can also predict what a patient is suffering from and create a pill with a certain combination of chemicals tailored for individual patients based on their 
specific conditions. Many doctors do not do this because of the severity of a misdiagnosis, but Watson is capable of doing so very accurately.

Consider a more specific case, like the treatment of early-stage cancer. It takes weeks to identify drugs which relate to cancer-causing symptoms in 
patients, but Watson can do it in under an hour, and automatically points to scientific findings and past papers detailing treatments for similar cases. 
Watson is also used extensively to test research hypothesis on immunotherapy, which uses the body’s own immune system to help combat cancer. 
Because of this, it is much easier to conduct future research and saves a lot of time and money. Given a large test population’s current health conditions, 
and a list of their previous medical histories, Watson was able to identify potential causes of cancer (such as genetic conditions and life-style choices) 
which increases the likelihood of cancer.

Robots are also taking over work performed by other medical professionals besides prescription doctors, such as those of surgeons. Many machines are now 
many times more precise and proficient than veteran surgeons, and don’t require breaks in between nine-hour surgeries. These machines are set to enter 
large-scale manufacturing in the coming years, and many experts believe they will likely enter the workforce in the next decade.

Therefore, it is not accurate to state that artificial intelligence will play a minimal role in the healthcare sector in the next coming years. If 
machines like Watson are any indication, artificial intelligence will not only be able to replicate much of a doctor’s work, but it will also be crucial
 for the medical field, whether in research, intensive surgeries, or general prescriptions. As such, it is likely that many corporations in the healthcare 
sector will invest in artificial intelligence to save time, money, and lives.