In my opinion, although I absolutely agree that AI will eventually influence all parts of our daily lives, I think that there will ultimately be domains where it isn’t able to completely replace us humans. This is because I believe that while AI will be able to closely resemble a human brain and replicate many of our actions and thinking, I don’t believe that it will be able to resemble all of the emotions that we as humans are able to feel.One example is in the entertainment domain. While I agree with that AI will make entertainment more “interactive, personalized and engaging”, I believe that there will still be voids that AI will not be able to fulfill. For example, while an AI robot will certainly be able to play soccer with a kid, it will not be able to fully replicate the emotions that are produced when the kid plays with one of his/her friend. Furthermore, I question the statement of AI being able to create better media than humans will. Sure, an AI will be able to consume and analyze a huge amount of data in order to obtain details in a humans’ interest and taste, I don’t think that AI will be able to create media with the kind of emotions that human creators can. We watch most movies and TV shows because they engage our emotions. For example, we laugh in some movies because the comedy was created to engage our emotions thus making us feel joy. We experience sadness after watching some movies because a character that we have been attached to for a period of time died. While AI may be to produce some content that would be able to engage us, I don’t think that it would be able to produce content that would strongly engage our emotions. Ultimately, I just cannot imagine human emotions being able to be completely represented by ones and zeros. Emotions such as intense sexual love and jealousy experienced by humans in romantic relationships cannot be wholly represented in math. Moreover, how can computer science ever completely define and understand emotions? Although I may very well be proven wrong one day, I also think that deep philosophical questions would need to be ask when the line separating humans and AI are blurred so much so that there is no difference between an AI and a human other than physical differences. Writing this essay made me think seriously of the future we may live in. How important will our “human touch” be? As Aristotle once said, we humans are social animals. We survive and live by interacting with each other. I just don’t think that it is right for us to have a future where we interact more or only with AI than with our human friends, thus losing our “human touch”. If all of our daily tasks will be able to be achieved by artificially intelligent robots, what joy is there in living? If we no longer need to hustle and bustle to achieve our goals, what is the point of our existence?