	The use of artificial intelligence within school systems can be extremely beneficial to both students and teachers and I believe that schools should put their resources into implementing this software into their regular curriculum. Not only has artificial intelligence allowed teachers to increase the size of their current classrooms, it has also decreased the amount of work that teachers have had to do to satisfy all of their students’ needs. In Stanford’s “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence”, it is stated that “The current absence of sophisticates use of AI technologies in schools, colleges, and universities may be explained by the lack of financial resources as well as the lack of data establishing the technologies’ effectiveness” (page 33). However, I disagree.
	I am currently employed as a software testing intern at the Epistemic Games Group at UW Madison where I conduct quality assurance tests on educational programs. These programs are referred to as virtual internships and allow students to gain real life job experience from behind a mouse and keyboard. These programs contain high levels of artificial intelligence that help to boost students through their coursework and ultimately lead to the achievement of tasks through teamwork and collaboration. Not only have I tested these internships out, but I have been able to monitor live implementations of the programs and have seen firsthand how effective the use of artificial intelligence in a classroom is. With this being said, I must disagree with the statement that the absence of sophisticated use of artificial intelligence in education is due to the lack of financial resources. When a new school wants to try out the programs that my firm works on, yes, sometimes there is a minimal charge. In most cases, however, we supply the schools with our software for free. This is due to the fact that we are a grant funded company and it is usually in mutual interest for schools to use our software. This clearly counters the argument that artificial intelligence software is expensive, and shows that there is no reason for schools to not test out implementations of it.
	As far as the argument of “the lack of data establishing the technologies’ effectiveness” goes, our firm also doubles as an educational research lab in which we collect data from every run of the program and perform tests with that data to gain insight into how students learn best. This data also is used to show teachers exactly what students chatted about during the run of the program and what connections they made within the game and with other students, thus showing the technologies’ effectiveness. Not only this, but we also use the data to constantly improve our software so that students have the best learning experience they can have.
	With all of this being said, One question remains. Why is there currently an absence of sophisticated use of artificial intelligence technologies in schools? I believe that the main reason for this is a lack of interest by students. Although the program my firm has developed is unquestionably beneficial to improving students’ learning, there has been a lack of interest/boredom through some implementations. I believe that as soon as artificial intelligence programs become more engaging and interesting to students, it will then become used widely throughout the education system.