Challenge aspect: Transportation      In the research, the authors note that autonomous transportation will soon be common place. I personally really like the idea of self-driving cars but I think there are some difficulties that we need to overcome. Firstly, it is the accident investigation policies when self-driving cars get into accidents. I am pretty sure that self-driving cars right now or in the future will be much safer than human drivers, but let’s say, unfortunately, an accident happens for a self-driving car, then who will take on the responsibility for that accident?  Perhaps the government will blame on the company that created the self-driving car for not designing the car carefully. On the other hand, I would image that the company would blame the government for poor organization and infrastructure. However, I think as the development of AI will improve in the future, some laws will be published to solve this kind of problem. 	Moreover, another issue that I can think of is that perhaps to make sure self-driving to operate normally, tech companies would demand the government to change the infrastructure in some way so that self-driving vehicles can operate smoothly. Right now, there are numerous situations that machine can hardly solve. For example, it could be that when roads do not have clear lane markings. As a human, we can rely on intuition to drive on this situation, but I personally think machines will have a hard time to do it. These problems are quite hard to solve due to the fact that upgrading infrastructure for self-driving vehicles would cost a lot of money and the government would not be very happy about this. And at the same time, perhaps until the government upgraded infrastructure, AI companies cannot do much to make self-driving vehicles operate in a way that to ensure the safety of passengers as well as the smoothness of self-driving vehicles.	Furthermore, another problem that raises my concern is a willing to share information between tech companies. I personally think that the self-driving technology is pretty trendy these days, so it will not be easy for companies to open up and share their technology to each other.  This is due to the fact that if they do so, they could potentially lose a number of customers due to the improvement of other companies. If tech companies are willing to open up and share their knowledge to each other, then I think we could see a huge improvement in the field of autonomous vehicles.	My last concern about autonomous transportation is about the safety of self-driving vehicles. As far as I know, self-driving cars are basically computers with connection to outside world, and same as other networked computers, they can be hacked. In the future, when there will be a lot of autonomous vehicles on the street, it would be really risky when hackers gain the ability to control those vehicles because not only they can cause accidents, but also a lot of people will be killed. Moreover, I also believe that it is pretty hard to design some kind of technology devices that will never be crashed or frozen. Right now, most of the devices I have seen could be crashed in some way or another, so I think it will take a pretty long time to develop a fully safe system so that everyone can rely upon.