Nowadays as Artificial Intelligence becomes a common source in many domains, our world becomes more efficient and consequently richer. In many aspects, it is transforming our lives for the better, but also some ethical and risky problems are emerging. After reading the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence (2016 by Stanford University), I realize that there are still some issues confusing AI experts.
The article mentions one of the challenges: the difficulty of gaining trust from society. This problem includes many aspects and one is potential unemployment.  Admittedly the participation of automatic machine leads to lower risk of accidents. Furthermore, automated therapists would not only increase the amount of available therapy but would also make it available for families wherever they live. As experts invent more and more automated machines to improve the working efficiency, they should also create more room for workers to assume more complex roles, moving from the physical work that dominated the pre-industrial globe to the cognitive labor that characterizes strategic work in the globalized society. The areas of human existence in which fully autonomous machines could be used – and the potential benefits – are almost limitless. However, if more and more companies integrate automation into various operations, millions of individuals who are currently employed would be fired, especially the majority of the workforce in developed countries. For instance, Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn plans to automate some of its operation with robots, replacing existing Chinese workers. It’s still hard for the public to accommodate the loss of manufacturing jobs in the industry. Inevitably most people who still rely on selling their time to have enough income to sustain themselves and their families maintain a bad case of post-industrial angst towards automated machine. In many developing countries, it results in job cuts greatly that some companies join the wave of smartphone vendors establishing production facilities in the promising mobile. Whether computers will indeed start to eliminate more jobs than they create remains to be seen. Maybe in the future people would find jobs in non-labor activities, while computer would engage with their communities and learn new ways to contribute to human society.
After the unemployment, furthermore, there is one thing that the article does not illustrate: inequality. Briefly, the economic system is based on compensation for contribution to the economy, often assessed using an hourly wage. The majority of companies are still dependent on hourly work when it comes to products and services. But by using artificial intelligence, a company can drastically cut down on relying on the human workforce, and this means that revenues will go to fewer people. Consequently, individuals who have ownership in AI-driven companies will make all the money. Now the widening wealth gap already exists, where start-up founders take home a large portion of the economic surplus they create.  If people want to build a real post-work society, then to structure a fair post-labor economy is the most difficult part. If machines can perceive, feel and act, it's not a huge leap to ponder their legal status, including possible income. 
There are many challenges about AI, such as ethical questions, risking negative outcomes and so on. When people, not only the researchers and experts think about those existing or potential risks, technological progress always means better lives for everyone. Artificial intelligence has vast potential, and its responsible implementation is up to the whole world.