		One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence is an article from Stanford University that deals with Artificial Intelligence (AI).  The main purpose of the article is to investigate about AI for long term and how it will influence humans, communities and society. Just in case for people who do not what AI is, it is ¡°an activity devoted to making machines intelligent, to enable an entity to function appropriately and with foresight in its environment¡± (Stone et al., 2016). There are some aspects of AI discussed in the article. I will be challenging transportation, home/service robots, and public safety and security of AI.
	Transportation, such as cars, have been improved. Nowadays, cars come with GPS, helping with navigation, sensor, helping with parking, etc. These are machines that help driver than making it intelligence. I think self-driving vehicle is a different story. When developing AI for the self-driving vehicle, AI has to contain speed, performance driving, sensor to check when to stop or go. The article states that self-driving can eliminate one of the biggest accidental death and injury in United States. However, there could be more accidents. For example, autopilot car was developed by Tesla, but fatal accident happened in Florida. According to Ackerman (2016), the system did not stop for a tractor-trailer attempting to turn across a divided highway. With this example, the car needs to have better sensor to pick up how the other cars are going to move. Moreover, there are more circumstances than people can expect. So, it is hard to take every single circumstance into account. 
	Similar to transportation, home/service robots are not so great yet. For example, iRobot has introduced Roomba, it did not really help with cleaning. However, testing how Roomba works, it does not work well if there are mess everywhere on the floor. The AI sensory system is not fully developed. So, the machine has hard time finishing the job that it supposed to do. So, the home/service robots need more improvement to be thought as integrating AI. 
	In addition to transportation and home/service robots, public safety and security is another challenge. US Transportation Administration (TSA) is doing a project to improve efficiency and efficacy of airport security. This requires AI techniques, such as vision, speech analysis. This sounds too much because in order to obtain speech analysis, they need to gather information about people¡¯s speech. To do this, it is invading personal space and information. So, it does not seem right to use it for the security. 
	In conclusion, in order to use AI into people¡¯s life, communities and societies, it needs to be improved more. Transportation is not just about one¡¯s life. It connects to other people¡¯s lives as well, if the collision gets bigger and bigger. Another is home/service robots. Even though Roomba was developed to clean, it has only ability to clean only the floor and not the stairs. Last aspect is the public safety and security. For public safety and safety, it can invade personal rights by trying to gather speech analysis. Therefore, it is not good idea to use AI in transportation, home/service robots, and public safety and security.
