	Artificial Intelligence (AI) is dominating the world and getting into everyone’s life. Without them realizing, almost everyone is involved in some form of AI-related devices or events. In “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” states that AI enhances the community in different sectors ranging from governments to individuals. However, there exist some problems that may occur if AI continues to be explored and used in manufacturing and transportation. Privacy protection will also be a problem when AI is enabled in healthcare.	Firstly, job opportunity will decrease if AI machines continues to replace most jobs in manufacturing factory. The report claims that AI will create more new jobs rather than decrease the number of jobs in the future. The new jobs that emerge require people with higher education in order to develop and carry out the maintenance on AI machines to keep track of their efficiency.  Unfortunately, a downside to this is that skilled workers in production factory will lose their jobs if their tasks are being replaced by AI. Furthermore, most factory workers are not well-educated, they do not have the ability to carry out these jobs. While the report suggests that people can obtain education or training on specific jobs to ensure their basic income, people will still lose their income when they are getting education and training. There might be a problem to carry out daily life because they have family expenses during no income period.	In addition to the reduction of jobs when implementing AI in manufacturing factory, implementing AI in transportation is also hazardous. Program is always written to associate with AI-related objects such as vehicles and machines. Problems might occur when the specific program is running in real life despite the program being tested perfectly during test runs. The report suggests that autonomous vehicles are convenient as it does not require human to operate which can reduce the number of accidents caused by human. This brings about the question of whether who is at fault when a serious accident occurs. Although some states have passed the law to allow autonomous vehicles on roads and autonomous vehicles system require the driver to hold their wheel to ensure the road safety, it is highly susceptible to hack for personal gain or interest. 	Besides AI being dangerous in transportation, rules and regulations regarding privacy protection needs to be revised if AI are used in healthcare. The report discusses that AI plays a significant role in healthcare by helping medical professionals to communicate efficiently, but privacy protection prevents this from happening. Diagnostics can be accurate if several medical professionals make discussions together. However, in the case that the diagnostic report cannot be accessed by other professionals, it will be tougher to come to a decision if they are physically far apart from each other. Recently, there are many AI-related healthcare devices in the market. These devices allow people to check their health condition such as heartbeat when they are exercising. If these data can connect with their respective professionals, it can help them to know their body condition and prevent from getting diseases.	In conclusion, the incorporation of AI into multiple sectors including that of the manufacturing field, transportation, and healthcare industry may prove to be bringing about unwanted and adverse effects. Whether it be the concerns of job security or safety concerns, AI is seemingly problematic. It is also imperative that medical privacy is to be revised for AI to improve healthcare experience. Hence, corresponding authorities and community should pay close attention to these problems and strive to overcome them to create a better future for AI.