	A topic that is greatly discussed in the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence is transportation. I agree with their claims that the implementation of AI in cars will increase safety on the road, people will shift toward using cars as a service rather than buying their own, and reduced need for parking will result in major cities changing their infrastructure. However, I reject their argument that the functionality of cars will not change significantly in the next decade. They state, “Although future cars will be smarter and drones will be available widely, it is unlikely that by 2030 we will have widely adopted transportation vehicles that look and function differently than the ones we have today” (p. 24). I believe cars will change as quickly and as dramatically as phones have changed in the last two decades and additional functions are needed to keep the consumer interested.

 	Fifteen years ago, phones had small black and white screens and plenty of physical buttons. They did not have the ability to take pictures, video chat, connect to/browse internet, stream videos, etc. Today, every phone is expected to have all of these features and with very high quality. In addition, the physical look is held at a high priority for the users and phone companies. I expect cars to follow an identical trend. For today’s cars, it is not the norm to have wi-fi or a color display screen. But with self-driving cars, the driver will have the freedom to do whatever they want during the commute time. The future cars will have to accommodate features that allow the user to stay engaged during this time. Furthermore, I believe competition will lead companies to make big changes in order to stand out from others. This is evident in phones, for example, Samsung decided to remove all physical buttons from the front of the phone and Apple removed the headphone jack on the iPhone 7. This gives reason to assume that the same can happen to cars with companies such as Tesla, Audi, and BMW. It is also important to note that majority of the population owns smart phones. Therefore, the idea of cars that look and function differently from the ones today being widely adopted transportation vehicles is plausible.

	Some big changes were already released in the past year that indicate what to expect from future cars. Many 2017 cars have wi-fi capabilities, which opens opportunities for features like weather updates and video streaming. Another modification is with the car interface. For example, Tesla took a minimalistic approach with their Model 3. They removed almost all of the buttons and installed a large display that can control everything about the car. This is a big change because dials and buttons have been in cars for several decades. It is also worth mentioning that this futuristic car is in the price range of the average car owner. Therefore, a high chance for it to be commonly owned.

	Studying the rapid rate of change in car design and features convinces me that cars will be dramatically different by 2030. Just like phones, those features will become the standard and be available to the average customer.
