     “The Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” mainly introduces the definition, various applications, and the appropriate management of artificial intelligence technology. This article claims that the success of the AI products is depends on how comfortable people feel about these AI products. However, I believe in the opposite: successful AI products should be able to make people easy to use and being comfortable with the products. The value of an existing technology may not be only determined by how great it improves people’s lives, but products should always work for people’s well-being and make contribution to people’s lives. Therefore, it is not people’s responsibility to accept and to adapt to the AI products: it is the responsibility for AI products to develop into forms that people can accept. For example, if people do not believe in autonomous car technology and assume it dangerous. Then the company should be responsible for showing people the technology they use and how these technologies help with safer driving. The company should not blame the public for not understanding the technology and not support their product. Those products that successfully designed will stay and those that failed to please people will be eliminated. The article implies that the development and success of AI products is limited by people, but it may be the case that the existing AI products are not satisfying enough so that people decline using them. 
     The article continues stating that the success of the AI applications is also determined by the users’ tolerance of their disadvantages. In fact, most products have their advantages and disadvantages. People would not decline a product simply because of some unpleasant experiences. Driving a car is more likely to cause a serious accident than walking while most people still want to drive because driving provides them higher speed compared to walking and they are willing to take the risk for this benefit. It is more likely for people to give up a product because it’s disadvantages outweigh it’s advantages. If the AI products actually improve people’s lives, only some unpleasant experience will not affect people’s reliance and trust in these products, thus the success of AI products is up to themselves but not the response from people.
     It is also believed by this article that the unequal access to AI technologies will enlarge the social inequality. Of course many unequal access to a resource leads to larger social inequality. In this extreme condition, the claim is true, but AI technologies is not necessarily unequal to be accessed. It can also served as a possible solution to the social inequality. For example, the translation technology may not be as useful to the highly educated people as to the illiteracy. If AI technology is accessible for disadvantaged group, it can help to improve their ability and promote social equality in a great way.
     The development and success of the AI applications eventually depends largely on the products themselves instead of the attitude of the society. The companies should keep improving the products and accommodating to the need of people that people may also welcome these AI products just like they did to the emerging products in the past. 