Artificial Intelligence, the activity that leaves the whole world spellbound, every time it comes up with new ideas, innovations and inventions. Undoubtedly, AI is improving our standard of living every now and then. From mobile phones that have become a part of us, to robots, everything has been possible because of AI only. Artificial Intelligence has brought up several new inventions in various aspects of our lives like education, security, health, robots, entertainment and many more. I believe that anything that happens for our good has it’s own cost, there is always a trade-off. So, if there has been immense benefit because of AI, there might be some repercussions as well.
One aspect of Artificial Intelligence that could backfire is it’s development in the field of service robots. They have already entered our homes and offices in the form of vacuum cleaners, chips etc. The study says that in the near future robots would be able to deliver packages, clean our surroundings, and would do certain tasks that any individual can do. However, I feel that relying on robots is beneficial only to a certain extent. Recently this year, researchers at Facebook were doing an operation which involved Artificial Intelligence robots. The researchers built a chat bot in which two AI robots were made to communicate to each other in a way, mimicking human trading and bartering. However, when the bots started communicating, as Facebook didn’t put any restraint on the language, these bots created their own bizarre language. The researchers said that they were unable to translate their language back to English and eventually the operation was shut down. This incident is one example which shows us that if AI robots start communicating with each other in a language, which we can’t understand, then they could affect our lives in the long run in any manner they feel like. 
Another aspect of Artificial Intelligence that could affect our life in an adverse way is it’s development in the field of employment and workplace. The study talks about robots replacing people in certain kinds of jobs such as driving taxis, and some other tech related jobs. The study says that AI would do tasks rather than replacing jobs and would also create new jobs, but these new jobs are highly unlikely to imagine in advance than the jobs that would be replaced. If this happens in the near future, then this would lead to unemployment, which is a major concern in many countries. Taxi and truck drivers with no formal education would face a very hard time to get new jobs. Also, if tech companies start using robots to do jobs, then entry level programmers would also have difficulty in finding jobs. Therefore, unemployment will increase and if unemployment increases, it could lead to more problems like poverty, starvation, etc. There are some driverless cars that have already been introduced by companies like tesla, but those cars won’t work in every situation because they don’t have the ability to think according to the situation. So, in unexpected situations it could lead to an accident. 
Although, there are many challenges to the Artificial Intelligence field, but I am pretty sure that if it is deployed for the betterment of people keeping in mind the adverse effects, it could lead to a better society in the coming decades.