Artificial intelligence(AI) is going to lead industrial innovation and have an impact on employment and workplace in manufacturing industries positively. Secondary industry company is significantly affected by labor cost and skill of workers. Meantime, many companies have been seeking better place to manufacture the products by spending low labor cost and moved their workplace from developed countries to developing countries where labor cost is low and relatively well-educated people live. While some economists and scientists anticipate dystopian future results because AI technology will replace a simple task executed by workers and deprive them of their job, the emerged computer technology have optimistic potential to enhance productivity and create new opportunity. The technology cannot only allow workers to find the optimized method or process but also make new job of operating the task and inputting information on the AI system.
AI technology can lead to improve productivity of a manufacturing machines and control the fabricating process efficiently. Productivity and efficiency is most important factor to determine companies in the manufacturing industry to success or fail. So, the companies start to invest how AI or big data can be implanted on a manufacturing process and machines. The reasons why they want to implement and develop the technology is that machine implanted with AI can work like well-trained workers without any training. In addition, it does not feel a fatigue and stress. In other word, it does not require a rest to release fatigue and affected by stress result from private problem. The AI machines are not going to make a fault and a mistake, which leads zero percent defective production. Therefore, advantage of machines can improve productivity of companies and allow them to operate process efficiently.
New kind of job is required to sustain the AI environment over the manufacturing industries and educate the machines to produce goods appropriately and efficiently. Job of doing simple tasking is going to be extinct after the AI machines is fully installed all over the workplace. Fortunately, human has to oversee and maintain the machines to be operate properly, which will be essential jobs. Moreover, the automated machine cannot work without initial condition and processing parameters. People are supposed to have a responsibility to input the information or let them cognize the requirements or the conditions by themselves. Many companies have tried to find a place where low labor cost is served and moved there whereas citizens who have lived in the country where the company had founded factories at the first had already lost their job. CEOs are willing to substitute previous employees into AI machines or systems unless constructing and operating factories implanted with AI are uneconomic. Companies and human to survive in this trend have to prepare the industrial innovation. Therefore, previous workers should become new type of workers who invent or develop machining processes AI machines cannot produce.
In sum up, implanting AI technology on the manufacturing industries is a natural flow to enhance productivity and produce new kind of job. Workers who are threatened by AI machines have to realize the trend and be trained to be familiar with the knowledge. Companies, which are trying to adapt AI technology, also should educate their workers to survive in the environment. AI technology is going to replace conventional jobs as much as steam engines had replaced simple repeat work in the Industrial Revolution. Well-prepared workers and companies can survive and would take more chance to be success at AI era.
