      In our modern society, AI is a very familiar term in every industry. Fast development of AI is making our life faster and easier in various way. “One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence” report states eight major domains of AI. Some of the domains are probably unrecognized whether it was made out of AI or not, because it became so familiar to people. Some of events took place last a few years demonstrate that how much these areas has been developed and how deeply it has been affiliated in modern society. IBM’s the Deep Blue beat the world chess champion, and Google’s AlphaGo beat human Go champion recently. These events shocked people and brought more attentions to people.          While these phenomenal developments create spectacular technologies, many people also concern about these changes. AI’s influences on employment and workplace trends is something that our society has to be more careful on developing. It is a phenomenon progress that AI system drives car in a highway without requiring any guideline from the driver, and replacement of AI can save people from dangerous positions. Also, more accurate and deliberate treatment will also save a lot of people from diseases. The article also suggests that the further development of AI in my fields will replace more and more jobs, and replace people in the near futusre.      There exist some kind of field where historically shaped and developed by humans. Art is probably the most special case that can be described as a human’s creation. Most of artists, such as musicians, painter, and certain designers, pursue their entire life to find own identities, which cannot be replaced by others. If these domain is also invaded by AI, anyone who are deeply engaged in Art will suffer. Human’s creativeness will also produce by machine. On the other hand, a lot of people still concern on how AI will replace humans’ ethical and moral value correctly in some fields as well. There was a car accident in California recently, and the driver was using automatic driving system in highway. People were questioning who should take responsibility on these issues. Also, since automatic robots replace human’s labor forces, it eventually raises unemployment rates. Thousands of people lost their job when giant manufactural companies adopt automatic system in their production line. Among these replacement of humans’ work, people will eventually lose their capabilities and diminish multitasking abilities as well. The most important factor is human will also lose ability to think on certain circumstances. Increasing.        The conceptual idea of developing AI to reduce people from dangerous and painful situation sounds good to anyone. To make it as more appropriately, creation of appropriate regulations and policies is probably more important than developing AI to avoid any restrictions or social obstacles in the future. It is now clearer that AI is something that will bring more benefits and advantages. Then, it is a relevant idea to also think how it will not be restricted by anything. Humans also have to concern about not losing their legacies.   