Stanford’s One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence brought up a lot of good points about the future of AI and how it will continue to develop overtime. I do agree with a lot of the points that were made about the danger of AI and it’s great potential for both good and bad uses. I also think that the article is right in saying that a great number of laws will need to change and adapt to AI, but I do not think it will be as fuzzy and unclear as they make it out to be. The article seems to suggest that eventually some AI programs could be able to guess personal information and then companies would be able to use that information however they wish. Many laws already exist to protect users’ personal information, and I think they are very clear and could be directly applied to AI. There are information privacy laws that prevent any sharing or misuse of sensitive personal information. I do not think companies will be able to circumnavigate these laws by using AI to guess the sensitive information instead of asking for it. I think that most legislative officials would agree that gathering personal information from users without explicit approval from the users themselves should be illegal. I do not think that companies will be allowed to use AI programs to guess personal information without the user’s explicit consent, let alone go on to use that information. Lawmakers just need to adapt the current laws about private information so that they apply to AI. Obviously there will be people that use AI for malicious purposes, just like any technology. I think the hard part about this will not be deciding if what is happening is legal or not, it will be enforcing the laws, catching people that misuse AI, and giving out appropriate punishments.
The article also makes it sound like in the future laws about AI and privacy might vary from state to state. It uses the example of autonomous cars and Nevada’s state laws against the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration’s laws. This example has a couple of flaws. First of all, the difference between the two laws passed is not that significant. Furthermore, autonomous cars are still very new, and not at all common. There are a lot of driver assist features, but not a lot of fully self-driving cars out there yet. As they become more common more laws will be made about what is legal and what is not, and who is at fault when accidents happen. The same will happen with AI. As it becomes more and more popular, it will also be more and more regulated. Usually state laws are not made for very important issues, that’s what federal laws are for. I do not believe there will be varying laws about personal information and AI from state to state in the future. There may be slight variances, like there are today, but the overall ideas will remain the same throughout the country. Overall, it was a very well written and informational article, I just disagreed with it’s point about legislation on AI and personal information.
