       After reading the article Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030 made me realize how much potential artificial Intelligence has in our society.  A great aspect about artificial intelligence is that it can be programed to show no biases in areas where biases are shown very often. One area in the article they said they could improve on is stopping crime and predicting where crime could take place. Having AI implemented into different security settings can provide much needed safety and security.  
       Having AI implemented in the security area could also pose some risks that I don’t necessarily agree with. Using AI to figure out and predict crimes could cause problems because I think there is a grey area in most crimes and decisions. In the article, it references the New York Police Department using a tool called predictive policing. This system analyzes and predicts where crimes can happen. Not every decision a police officer or a security guard makes is black or white, right or wrong. There is an area between the too, the so called grey area. Right now, artificial intelligence is not able to show human emotions or the process of thinking directly like a human. That is why predictive policing could lead to times where a decision is based by a machine is not correct. The paper references the movie “Minority Report” as an over dramatization of a system using prediction to see into the future to stop crimes from happening. Even though this is a fictional movie, something in that nature is already in place and if it is not used wisely then people could be wrongly convicted. I feel that AI needs to improve and overcome a lot of hurdles before I can see a full implementation between security and artificial intelligence in the future. 
            Another aspect of the paper that I challenge is the implementation of artificial intelligence in healthcare by 2030. I can see AI being implemented in computer systems to be used as record keeper and start to analyze different areas to uncover symptoms and diseases, but I challenge the fact that AI can’t replace actual health care professionals. By 2030 I see a partnership between artificial intelligence and the health care professionals. Doctors and patients will always have the question what happens if the machine and software fails during a procedure or misdiagnoses something. I think that overtime artificial intelligence will have to learn every situation, but programming every situation can’t happen. I think there will come a time where a system might be able to think on its own like a human and problem solve different situations, but in the next thirteen years I don’t see machines taking over every aspect of the health care system. Over the years there have been many improvements in the healthcare field from artificial intelligence, but there is still need for improvement before it is fully implemented in our health care system. 
	Artificial intelligence can help many different areas of our society, and the upside potential is infinite. For now, and in the near future there needs to be many improvements to fully understand what artificial intelligence has to offer.

