In this report, people imagine the likely influences of AI in a typical North American city by the year 2030. It refects the progress on AI in the past fifteen years and anticipates developments in the coming fifteen years. There are eight domains that they considered most salient: transportation; service robots; healthcare; education; low-resource communities; public safety and security; employment and workplace; and entertainment. In this essay, I¡¯d like to challenge their perspective about employment and workplace. In the report, the author didn¡¯t make a clear statement about AI¡¯s impact on employment positively or negatively. For the bad side, it pointed out that people¡¯s income has stagnated, the employment to population ratio has fallen, and AI have been affecting human work. For the good side, AI will create new jobs, new markets and make existing works more efficient. 
However, in my perspective, I think AI will replace human workers eventually. For starter, with more and more research and development being conducted in the field of AI, many people fear that a major job crisis will happen since many jobs can be more accurately and efficiently done with the utilization of machines. I would say this kind of fear is completely necessary, because I think AI is going to replace 50 percent of all jobs in the next 15 years. 
Admitted it or not, machines will replace most if not all human workers, and It has been happening for decades, it is accelerating and it will complete within 100 to 200 years. In my perspective, AI is the wave of the future. It is an innovation that can be larger than all of the human tech revolutions added together. It is the decision engine that will eventually replace people. In many ways, AI¡¯s capabilities far exceed humanity. 
I¡¯ve read an online blog that pointed out 10 jobs that are not likely to be replaced by AI in the future. Those jobs include Human Resources Managers, Sales Managers, Marketing Managers, Public Relations Managers, Chief Executives, Event Planners, Writers, Software Developers, Editors and Designers. Those are the jobs that require human-to-human interaction, innovation and creativity. However, I think AI is completely capable of doing these things. For example, Google has already tried to let AI writes songs. Last year, they launched Magenta, a research project aimed at pushing the limits of what AI can do in the arts. And they have successfully used some machine learning techniques to let machine generate its own music. This is a representation of creativity. So, why can¡¯t I imagine AI writing books, painting or coding on its own? Maybe it¡¯s far from the reality for now, but in a few decades, I think it will become true. As a result, no existing or future job without exception is safe, simply because computers are general purpose thinking machine smarter, less error prone and more creative than humans in the long run.
To end, I think AI is really an innovative industry with endless possibilities. I could imagine that one day AI will do all the work for human and create a huge amount of wealth for mankind.
