        The article “Artificial Intelligence and life in 2030” goes in depth on how AI will greatly affect our daily American lives. Many valid points have been brought up on several tasks that would highly benefit from enhancing our AI technology. However, an aspect that this article left out is the amount of electronic waste leftover if these AI robots are to become a prominent thing in our daily lives. Electronics used in our daily lives such as Ebooks, Ipads, laptops and cellphones have become a very common thing to have for family households. The devices are not even that large, but with their short lifespan and the very high demand, it generates an excessive amount of electronic waste. Electronic waste is very difficult to dispose of and only a small percentage of it is actually recyclable. Most of this electronic waste just ends up in the landfill contributing to more waste and environmental pollution. One example of an AI bot that was brought up in the article that I see  heavily contributing to Electronic waste were the home service robots. Home-service robots are something that many people would be willing to buy, but how long can it last, and how much space will it take? Assuming these home-service robots are relatively large and made out of metal, they would generate even more electronic waste than what we currently use now. In order for these robots to become a safe utility in our daily lives, there would have to be a way to either increase the lifespan of these machines, or have a safe way of disposing electronic waste, which we currently don’t have. Although something like home-service robots sound great to have in our daily lives, without addressing these two key factors, they would not be sustainable in the long term. Moving onto another issue that was understated are how AI machines will heavily affect jobs associated with human labor whether it is in a positive or negative manner. It is undoubtedly a fact that AI machines will threaten the job security of many people in this group. The article states that existing jobs will be lost with new ones being created. It’s also stated in the article that people would find their labor as insufficient pay on a social standing. My question is how can it be expected that these people will be able to accept and  adapt to this drastic change? For people that are used to doing their current work, this wouldn’t necessarily be a positive change for them as they’re used to the traditional way, there will be many people that won’t be satisfied to accepting this new shift of working alongside AI bots. Right now, people are already struggling with finding jobs alone, how will they be able to cope with even more competition when other employed people lose their jobs having to seek newer ones? Jobs related to human labor cover a large portion of the country's workforce, therefore, replacing these jobs with AI bots would leave the public raising many questions whether it should be allowed. A future where AI live alongside humans is possible in our generation, but in order to make it a reality, there will always be several factors to consider and address.