      I agree with the premise of the document “Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030” that “the measure of success for AI applications is the value they create for human lives” (page 10) and I firmly believe that the panel of experts have a far better idea than I do of what Artificial Intelligence will look like in the future.  However, I challenge some of their optimism as to how quickly artificial intelligence technology will be adopted especially in applications where there is a great potential for abuse stemming from mishandling of data or risk of serious injury or loss of life.  I’d also suggest that much of the consumer technology they discuss; such as home service robots will be too expensive for most consumers for the next few decades.  Finally, I believe that regulations will inevitably slow progress and while the panel’s predictions will come true I believe the time line is longer than they suggest. 
      Briefly stated in the overview at the beginning of the document and in greater detail on page 18 the article states, “Autonomous transportation will soon be commonplace” and the article cites a study from Business Insider with the fantastic headline “10 Million Self Driving Cars Will be on the Road by 2020”.  The Business Insider article notes the difference between fully autonomous (can go from point a to point b without any input from the driver) and semi autonomous (which contain any features that allow the car to accelerate, break or steer with limited or no driver interaction).  I don’t disagree that self-driving cars are on their way but I believe that the timeline is significantly underestimated.  I also assert that calling a car that uses laser range finders or a camera array to maintain a cruse control speed, called adaptive cruise control which has been available on production vehicles since the late 1990s, self driving or even semi autonomous is disingenuous.   Such features are certainly advancements towards self-driving vehicles and installing them in current vehicles will accelerate the development of the technology but they are far from the public idea of self-driving cars.  I also believe that as autonomous vehicles become more common and more accidents inevitably happen (even if automated vehicles are safer than human drivers) regulations will prevent quick mainstream adoption.
      Similarly, I also challenge whether home service robots will be adopted as quickly as the panel predicts.  Roomba type cleaning robots were relatively successful yet they are still far from being common and I don’t believe this will change in the next fifteen years.  The article states that a major factor in the increased adoption of home robots will be the decrease in cost of the 3D sensors as well as more powerful and cheaper processing chips, I believe that the costs of all the other hardware that goes into the robot will still make them prohibitively expensive for many consumers and a poor value proposition for the consumers that are able to afford them.  Privacy concerns stemming from consumers’ paranoia about home robots collecting data will also work against their mainstream appeal and initial adoption.
      In conclusion, I believe that AI based technologies will be widely adopted just not as quickly as the survey panel states or in as many consumer facing mainstream applications, at least initially.  I think automated vehicles will be used for commercial trucking applications and machines resembling home service robots will be used in factory and warehouse applications long before they become commonplace for day-to-day transportation or used in a majority of consumers’ homes.   
