	For a long time, people have evolved to be innovative and build things that would have been thought to be unimaginable some time before they came into existence. 
However, as those creations become popular, the demand puts more strain on people to mass produce them, which is burdensome and quite repetitive. One solution for this issue 
was to automate the process which is efficient and less-prone to errors. An example would be the production of automobiles, most of the process involving robotics and 
automation. This is just one of many areas where Artificial Intelligence plays an important part to improve lives and make an impact. The One Hundred Year Study on 
Artificial Intelligence by Stanford gives a great insight on AI, its history, the part it plays in our lives and its future. However, there are a few claims made in the 
article which I do not entirely agree on and hence challenged them in this essay.

	Public safety and security is an important sector that is required everywhere to prevent crimes and other unfortunate incidents from happening and discourage those 
who would think about doing them. Although improving the technology for better surveillance such as better cameras and drones certainly would help in bringing down crime 
rates, letting AI make decisions using prediction tools to reduce human bias in the future is something that should not be researched into much (Pg. 36-37). Using Artificial 
Intelligence as a tool to develop technology gives it the ability to learn quickly and adapt to situations fast, but would not give it the ability to understand human 
emotions and their unpredictability. With AI growing rapidly, having it make decisions as a part of the public sector administration would be detrimental as they could 
easily choose to deem someone to be unsuitable for society due to their emotions that would not have resulted in any harm. For instance, a person having a bad day could 
be judged by AI as someone who will commit a crime soon. Movies such as Minority Report try to show these scenarios and their overall impact on society. Hence giving AI 
more administrative power would be risky and can result in serious damage in the future.

	AI has already become deeply rooted in our lives in the form of technology that promotes education such as smartphones and tablets, which can be used to access many 
educational resources such as Wikipedia catered to our needs to learn in an efficient way (Pg. 33). The article claims that AI can even be used to provide good education 
through the use of tools such as iPads that has many educational apps available (Pg. 35). However, the article does not seem to consider the fact that people can get 
distracted easily while using those tools by just switching to another tab that has an entertainment app open. In this case, AI is unfortunately a double-edged sword, 
providing access to both education and entertainment at the same time. Using such tools can also negatively impact the social interactions of students and create a gap 
among their peers.

	Artificial Intelligence has played an important part in many lives in improving their conditions and the report accurately portrays the growth and impact of AI. 
However, the study of AI should be moderate in some fields where certain risks are involved that could harm society and the people who are a part of it.
