In the Stanford report One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence (AI100), researchers talk about 
existing and potential applications of Artificial Intelligence in nearly every field. As AI continues to
improve and change our lives, we undoubtedly will see changes in our economy. These changes have potential 
to benefit humans by automating basic tasks, saving us time, and lowering the price of goods and services.
However, I feel as though the report glossed over the potential negative economic impacts of artificial
intelligence. In this paper, I will talk about my concerns with AI and what action I think should be taken
to address these concerns.

AI has long produced fears of major job loss, which the article addresses in the Employment and Workplace 
section. They state that most fears are overblown, and that so far AI has mostly "been affecting workers more 
in the skilled middle, such as travel agents, rather than the very lowest-skilled or highest skilled work".  
While I agree that job loss likely won't be catastrophic, I also think it is foolish to assume that AI won't 
also end up impacting low-skilled employees dramatically.  While currently the cost of automating low-skill 
workers is not economically feasible, AI and technology continue to advance. Perhaps it will take a few 
decades, but it's hard to for me to imagine a future in which AI-controlled robots are not cheaper and more 
efficient than humans at low-skilled tasks. 

Furthermore, the shrinking middle class should be a bigger cause for alarm than the report considers. With
the rising cost of a college degree and the increased importance of said degrees for middle class jobs, the 
job loss due to AI will only increase the strain on this segment of the economy. Also, those who will be best 
equipped to deal with AI will be college educated, so that will also increase the education gap in our society, 
and place significant barries for low-income Americans to benefit from AI advancements. Given the rising income 
inequality in the United States, it seems as though the owners and investors of AI technologies are those to 
stand to benefit most from the imcoming AI revolution. And also considering the fact that wealthy political 
donors have incredible influence in US Politics, it's probable that the wealthy can successfully lobby 
politicians into supporting their control over the profits and wealth that AI will produce.If left unchecked, 
this could devestate opportunity the lower and middle class.

To give the report some credit, they advocate for the debate over a stronger social safety net, programs 
such as universal healthcare, education, or basic income. I agree wholeheartedly with these suggestions,
however unlikely they may seem in today's political climate. Furthermore, I think that there will be new
jobs and industries that become available due to advancements with AI. However, since we don't know what that
future economy looks like yet, I think we need to prepare now and be proactive in reforms to the social
safety net.  