Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence demonstrates that AI has been use in many aspects of our lives including transportation, healthcare, education and more. 
Study illustrates how AI is better in these areas while it still faces some challenges and causes legal or other issues. However, the whole study introduces AI as an approachable
 and beneficial technology since researchers believe that AI is not a threat to humankind because there is no self-sustaining AI likely to be developed in the future. 
However, AI machines with self-conscious are likely be developed since it has not yet reached its limit yet.  Moreover, other than issues that have been mentioned in the study, 
human’s intelligence may have been weakened because of AI machines and solving these issues caused by AI technologies is harder than demonstrated in the study. 

Contrary to Stanford’s study, AI may be a threat to humankind since AI machines with self-intention are likely been developed in the future. From the latest news, recently Facebook 
is developing chatbot AI and these AI chatbots had bizarre communication among themselves. Although this may happen coincidentally, intelligence of AI is undoubtfully high and 
their intelligence limit has not been reached since more researcher are put more effort into developing AI machines. Therefore, in the future, it is likely to have AI with its self-conscious 
and higher intelligence than humankind. If AI machines with self-intention and higher intelligence are developed, more ethnical issues will be caused.

Moreover, AI may have weakened humankind’s intelligence and contributions to society over the past few years. Automatically filling text messages when users have not yet 
finished typing, recommending books or movies that users may be interested in before they start searching, AI has its own intelligence to assist human while human 
themselves do not have need to memorize words, literature or they will no longer spend time thinking. In the future, once AI replaces drivers, less people will be eager to learn to drive. 
If AI have better education planning, teachers may not even evaluate their own students’ abilities and keep track of their students’ progress since AI machines have already got every task done.
 The more convenience that AI has brought our lives, the less that human will need to do.

As people would argue, having AI to replace human to do some jobs will leave human more opportunity and space to improve their abilities and conduct better quality work.
 Although it may be reasonable for some part, it is fact that humans do not have same high level of intelligence themselves. If AI replaces all taxi drivers, bus drivers, librarian, workers,
 these people need to find other jobs. Moreover, in the future, it is very likely that AI is going to take more jobs. In the study, authors state that AI will also create more jobs. 
However, creating equal amount of jobs for people who lose their jobs can do is more challenging since it depends on people's level of education and working abilities as well. 

In sum, although AI has brought human more conveniences, higher life qualities and some issues that it caused may be able to solve. AI intelligence has not yet reached its 
limit and it is likely to have AI self-consciousness so that it will be a threat to humankind. Moreover, AI technologies have weakened human’s abilities to think and solving issues 
caused by AI is harder than what Sandford’s study has demonstrated. 



