In modern society, electronic device has been much more popular and easier to see because of the development of the science technology. With the increasing appearance of electronic device, one of the advanced technology - Artificial Intelligence has become much more common. Artificial Intelligence is an activity to make machines intelligent in order to let them function appropriately and have the acknowledge or the foresight of the their behavior. This kind of technique could bring human many advantages in many field such as: transportation, public safety, employment and workplace. However, artificial intelligence could also bring people some other potential risks, like the possibility of being used by cyber criminals or decreasing of the job opportunities of other people.
Artificial Intelligence could be very useful when on the internet. In the article, author says that public safety and security could be protected by the artificial intelligence. AI tools may also very useful in helping police by managing crime scenes or searching events by helping commanders prioritize tasks and allocate resources. Also, artificial intelligence have the ability of predicting where and when crimes are going to happen and who may commit them. However, besides these advantages, artificial intelligence could also be used by some other cyber criminals, which is not good for public safety. These criminals may use the technology to steal others¡¯ personal information or even spy others¡¯ every action on the Internet, which may be the invasion of others¡¯ rights of privacy. With the help of artificial intelligence, criminals can get what they want more easily and hard to be found because of the ability of prediction of the artificial intelligence. Although artificial intelligence could help police in many ways, there will always be some loopholes for criminals to utilize.
Artificial intelligence could affect employment in many ways. Artificial intelligence will influence future labor need, including the shift in skill demands. In the article, in order to ease people¡¯s worry about being marginalized by artificial intelligence, author says artificial intelligence will likely replace tasks instead of replacing jobs in the near term, and will also generate new kinds of jobs. However, these new jobs are harder to imagine than the jobs we will easily lose. Artificial intelligence will also generate new jobs, especially in some area by making certain tasks more important, and create new categories of job demands by making new modes of interaction possible. Because artificial intelligence could make labor became less important by replacing the roles which human plays in the work place, many people¡¯s daily lives will be affected.
Although artificial intelligence could bring people numerous advantages. There will always be some disadvantages for human being. Although these disadvantages may seem terrible for us, its advantages could be much more helpful for human being. Artificial intelligence will finally appear in ever corner of the world because its huge influence on human lives. Also, I believe the risks which artificial intelligence may bring will finally be eliminated in the future.