Artificial Intelligence, or AI, has been a buzz word and one of the most discussed topic in the field of Computer Sciences in the 21st century. There has been many articles and reports published in different magazines, newspaper and academic journals discussing various aspects of AI Ð ethics, security and quality of human life. Artificial Intelligence and Life in 2030 is a similar report published as a part of One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, which is a long-term study of the field of AI and its impact on people and society. This study was conducted by the Standing Committee which comprises of experts in the field of AI from academia and industry from across the world. In this report, scientists and experts discuss the impact of AI in different domains or sectors of economy Ð transportation, home robots, healthcare, education, low-resource communities, public safety, employment and entertainment Ðby the year 2030.In the transportation sector, the report claims that by the year 2030 a typical North American city landscape would evolve to having self-driving cars and trucks. Furthermore, it also speculates to have aerial vehicles to commute within the city. AI and other related technologies like Machine Learning, Computer Vision and Deep Neural Network has grown in a rapid rate in the recent times but it is still far from helping us develop safe and reliable transportation network within the city for the people by 2030. The concerns in developing technologies for self-driving vehicles is safety, reliability and ability for humans to interact with autonomous technology. The major concern for experts in the field of AI has been of safety. This concern and fear about AI and its technology is extended to the entire public. This is mainly due to vehicular accidents involving autonomous vehicles with none or some human supervision. The Tesla accident in May 2016, in which a man was killed when his Tesla in the autopilot mode hit a truck, questions the validity of safety in self-driving vehicles. Machine learning and Computer Vision, which are sub-fields in AI, are still young technology and must undergo rigorous testing and vast improvement in order drastically increase the safety standards in autonomous vehicles. Along with the safety of a technology, people expect the technology to be reliable as well. Self-driving vehicles normally provide none or some features of the vehicle to be controlled by human operators. In other words, most of the functions of the vehicles is performed by vehicular algorithms and network signals. These technologies are vulnerable and could be misused for terrorism activities. It is, thus, important to test the algorithms the vehicle runs on with all the possible parameter to close all loopholes and protect the people and the society from misdemeanour activities.The concerns with self-driving vehicles does not conclude at safety and reliability of the technology, it also required to know how people would interact and adopt to autonomous vehicles. With vehicles on autonomous mode, people would be subjected to distraction - texting on mobile, working on the laptop, talking to co-passenger Ð and may violate certain safety precaution like wearing the seatbelts. This strongly indicates that people should undergo specialized training before operating an autonomous vehicle or the vehicle manufacturers should factor in these aspects in their design to avoid these avoidable implications.AI is still young and growing. It has the potential to revolutionize the transportation sector but seeing self-driving vehicles on American roads is going to take much longer than 2030. The experts in AI needs to address and solve these concerns before the transportation industry opens to autonomous vehicles.  