The One Hundred Year Study seems to suggest that the general public has a negative perception of AI. Also, in the study they suggest that 
all layers of government should gain technical expertise in AI and then they will be able to make informed decisions on AI that benefit society. 
I want to challenge both of these aspects of the study. I feel that in general the public is optimistic about the future of AI and that it would not
be feasible for all layers of the government to gain technical expertise in AI and even if they did, they would not be able to stay up to date with
current research.

Throughout the study they mention several times that the majority of the general public doesn't trust AI and that public trust has to be gained for 
the field to grow. In a study conducted by Northstar Research Partners Ltd on behalf of ARM, 61% of the respondents said that they feel society will 
become better due to AI and automation. In the study they also found that currently over half the respondents would trust an autonomous car to drive 
their family if accident rates were demonstrably better and 70% would trust an autonomous car to drive their car by 2027. In June 2016, Weber Shandwick 
and KRC Research surveyed 2,100 consumers online in five global markets (the U.S., Canada, the UK, China, and Brazil) on their feelings about AI. In 
their study they found that 52% of the respondents said AI will have a positive impact on their lives. In the same study they found that two-thirds 
or more said they would trust AI with handling medication reminders, travel directions, entertainment, targeted news, and manual labor and mechanics 
and more than 50% of respondents trust AI to provide elder care, health advice, financial guidance, and social media content creation. The results of 
both these studies shows that even though not everyone is aware of the intricacies of AI, the public perception of AI is positive and not heavily 
influenced by the portrayal of AI in movies.

Another aspect of the study that I want to challenge is the suggestion that if all layers of government gain technical expertise in AI, they will be able
to make decisions regarding the regulation of AI. Firstly, I feel that it would not be feasible for all layers of the government to gain the level of 
technical expertise in AI which would be required to make appropriate decisions regarding regulation of AI. Secondly, politicians in the government might
curb the growth of AI technologies simply because a specific application of AI might hurt their political agenda. The field of AI is growing rapidly and 
it would be impossible for all layers of the government to stay up to date with the current research in AI. I feel that the appropriate way to make 
decisions regarding regulation of AI is to appoint a team composed of experts in AI from different fields to have the final say on all AI related regulation. 
The team should ideally have a balance of experts that support tough regulation of AI such as Elon Musk as well as experts that feel AI should not be heavily 
regulated. I feel that only such a group of experts would be able to make decisions regarding AI regulation which would be beneficial for the society. 
