After reading the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, I felt like the Artificial Intelligence is one of the most powerful science that can most profound influence on human society science right now and developing AI should be treated more than a science but an ethics study. In addition, there are two aspects I want to challenge: one is work positions; another is AI policy. If we do not handle these issues appropriately, AI could be the last scientific area that human ever explore. 
There is no doubt that Al can be benefit for human-being more than 8 areas (transportation; service robots; healthcare; education; low-resource communities; public safety and security; employment and workplace; and entertainment) that the report mentioned. However, with the help of AI, many human working positions in those areas might be replaced by computers or robots; because machines can do the same work cheaper, quicker and even better. People who originally work those positions become unemployed, which can lead to the group of social instability. They need to raise their family and pay the debt, however, when their work positions are replaced by the machines, they lost financial supports and hope of living; this can turn normal people to robbers, rappers or even murderers. The world might be chaos then. At this time, we can’t ask a question like this: what kind of jobs will not be replaced by computer? I think the answer is the positions filling with creativity and inspiration such as arts and designs. The job positions of less consciousness and creativity participation will most likely to be replace, for example, typists, truck drivers, cashiers. Even if involving complex road conditions determining and programming work, with the aid of computational efficiency is greatly higher than that of the human brain to complete the robot. Because computers are extremely good at computation, they are fast and precise. The reason why people will think about this questions is they felt threatened. And this is what AI developers should consider more. 
The article also mentions that people could use AI technologies to do the bad things as well. And there are many debates about implementation of AI laws or ethics, because if everyone has this super power to benefit themselves, this world will be a mess. The laws should set out standards, procedures and principles that everyone must be followed to keep orderly. But how do we force the AI to follow those laws if they are intelligent enough to make decision s or their moral standard might not align with humans’? A more complex question is that should we merely consider human’s benefits and rights but not the AI robots? If the AI is trained to think and act or even emotions like human, should we suppose to treat AI as human? And by then human already abandon their professional or fundamental skills, so how should we prevent the AI be a thinker? How should we stop AI destroy the human-being with their more powerful body? Can we still rule them by that time? Therefore, there are lots of more discussions needed for future AI development. We really should think more about the ethics issues and how to control them than giving them more and more power. With the development of technology, we also need to improve our cognitive thoughts.

