	The 100-year study on artificial intelligence made countless eye-opening insights about the progress of artificial intelligence in the past, and where the field is heading. The section considering how AI is affecting education makes many clever points including the ideas that AI will enable instructors to multiply the size of their classrooms, can enhance education by providing personalization at scale, and will allow for a blended online and in-classroom experience. With that being said, it seems as though the report fails to acknowledge one of the main reasons that sophisticated use of AI technologies in education systems around the world is not as prevalent as it could be, which is that many education professionals are skeptical, and even scared of what AI might do to their jobs.	The authors choose to explain the absence of AI in schools using two other factors, that may not be the true cause. The report states, “The current absence of sophisticated use of AI technologies in schools, colleges, and universities may be explained by the lack of financial resources as well as the lack of data establishing the technologies’ effectiveness”. The article did recognize that formal education will not disappear. Although when attempting to explain the absence of AI technologies in schools today, it should be acknowledged that education policy makers, and education professionals might not be open to bringing in these technologies if they fear that their jobs might be taken, that they won’t be able to engage in parts of their jobs that they love, or that the public appreciation for their professions could lessen. So, the thought that AI is currently absent in schools due to lack of funding may not be the true cause. Rather, a main reason it is absent in schools is because education professionals may be skeptical of it, even if the funding is there. To be clear, it is certainly suitable to say that a lack of financial resources and data can be to blame for AI not having a larger presence in education systems everywhere, but it should not be overlooked that there are many human aspects to teaching that cannot be copied by simulating intelligence artificially. In particular, teachers need to think creatively in situations, especially with young students, where by-the-book teaching is not working effectively. Elementary school teachers are relied on to build personal relationships with their students, and to understand where kids are coming from in any given situation through a shared human experience. Moreover, humans are conscious, and they will always be able to identify with other humans on an emotional level where robots lack. It is for these reasons that education policy makers and professionals might be skeptical about adopting new AI technologies in schools, even if they have sufficient funding to do so. 	In turn, it is unreasonable to attribute the absence of advanced AI technologies in schools mainly to a lack of data and financial resources. The reasons mentioned above shine light on how education professionals and policy makers, especially those who are less informed about AI, might be reluctant to funding new AI software in schools, even when it might be in the best interest for a student’s learning, and the school’s financial state. To conclude, the 100-year study on artificial intelligence may not be attributing the absence of AI in schools for the right reasons. It is the skepticism of those who are making the decisions to bring AI software into schools that may be behind the lack of funding, and driving the absence of AI in schools and universities everywhere.