	AI is clearly an ever-expanding field of interest. Today the use of AI is being used ever more widely for 
public safety and security by certain countries’ respective police and military forces. The points I will challenge
is the general direction AI will be used in this area of society presented in this article as well as the statement 
that AI “gaining public trust is crucial”. 
	The article narrowly focuses on the use of AI as a more data analysis tool for security forces. This will
only be a small part to the collage of applications that will capitalize on AI. For example, a couple of months ago
the US military finished testing swarm drones. The test had about one-hundred small drones released from a fighter 
jet to then converge on a moving target. The test was successful. AI enabled all the drones to communicate and plan a 
route towards the target. Today, if desired, the drones could be given explosives to destroy enemy forces whether they
be a systems or people. AI systems are also being tested to be able to search for enemy forces with land vehicles on 
enemy soil. In the end, these systems could make the killing of warfare even more efficient. Yes, these systems will 
be able to crunch more data than a human to possibly save lives, but other systems also utilizing AI will be able to 
take the air, ground and sea to take lives at the same time.
	Therefore, trusting these systems will not be so straight forward. There may be respect at times for these 
powerful tools, but there will always be some fear due to the power they can wield under the right hands. There is an 
even further danger in the possibility of certain wealthy individuals procuring many of these weaponized AI systems to 
create a substantial army to wield at his or her own discretion. This will help deteriorate public trust while adding 
to the publics’ fears. These private drone armies of course will not be an issue in stable regions where there are 
strong and united armies preventing the rise of these fractions, but in places of conflict, this will create even more 
danger. Warlords could produce more death and destruction with these more advanced tools. ISIS is already using drones 
to strike some of their targets, but thankfully these drones have no AI to assist them. People will adapt to the 
conditions present with both the positive and negative possibilities looming. Society should not grow to blindly trust 
these devices, but rather respect these devices for whatever power AI can enable. 
	The future of this technology is unknown, but the possibilities are expansive, both for good and for bad. 
Realistically any prediction about the future of AI will not be precise, but the prediction can help plan for certain 
possibilities. The public will have to grow to respect this technology for both its beneficial services that can be 
provided as mentioned in the article, as well as the possible negative outcomes that may be produced which is not 
mentioned in the article.