	The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence considers a realistic model of how the development of Artificial Intelligence will affect the world in regular units of time. The 2015 Study, released one year ago, therefore attempts to predict the advances of AI between now and the year 2030. The article is thorough and realistic, critiquing alarmist predictions and instead basing its forecasts on current trends. As such, any flaws in the article are not easily forthcoming, as the authors had both more experience and more data than available to the average student. Particularly interesting, however, is the article’s prediction regarding a transportation renovation.
	The Study notes extreme advances in navigation technology, best seen in the incredibly popular Google Maps app on smartphones. Google Maps has recently acquired the ability to react to developing traffic situations, rerouting dozens of cars in real time to avoid traffic on major roads. The Study also notes a massive increase in cars capable of performing autonomous tasks, and even several prototype self-driving cars. Because of these, and because deep-learning techniques that respond to massive amounts of data have proven so successful, the 2015 Study predicts that Self-Driving cars will be common by the year 2030.
	This prediction is hard to argue with, but one weak element does stand out. The Study worries about Societal Reactions to Self-Driving Cars, especially “Who is to Blame” in collisions. In particular, it cautions that society might delay a very beneficial transition to self-driving technology out of lack of trust for AI. I suspect that the very opposite will happen. A self-driving car has every potential to be safer than a human driver. With faster reaction time, the ability to communicate instantly with other nearby self-driving cars, the potential for city-wide coordination, and many other benefits, the trustworthiness of AI drivers will soon be undeniable. The few flaws in AI driving are also easily corrected by the massive development and improvement of the field. For example, the collision of the Tesla Car in June 2016 was the result of a sensor not distinguishing between a section of road and an oddly colored truck; this is easily remedied.
	And so my prediction is that, far from society reacting to AI driving cars with mistrust, the development of AI drivers will instead make human drivers not only obsolete but also illegal. Human drivers lack the ability to coordinate at the speeds which will become possible for self-driving cars, are much more easily distracted, and can enter states of fatigue, drunkenness, or road rage. AI also can sense in all directions at once, and can process many more types of data than humans can. Most collisions with even existing Google Self-Driving cars, for instance, are the result of human error, not AI error. The AI will become only more reliable as technology increases.
	I believe that the 2015 Study is exactly correct in predicting that self-driving cars will renovate the urban landscape in a great variety of ways. But while the study is concerned about human society and governments slowing this process, I think that the safety and capabilities of self-driving AI will result in hastening the process instead. By the year 2030, I easily can predict a world where a driving license requires an almost prohibitively difficult set of abilities and human drivers are actively discouraged by government and society.
