Homework 1
              Technology has rapidly developed ever since the Second Industrial Revolution in the 20th century. One of the most astonishing technology that has come out should be the Artificial Intelligence (AI). Although AI may not really mean that computer has intelligence, however, computers now can have the abilities to make the machine learning and to solve problems based on their data base. And AI starts to be used in all kinds of areas in people’s real life now and it is changing people’s life style as well. AI has been used in the transportation , education , medication , and human interaction and communication.

           AI has better calculation skills and faster information analyzing skills. All these features that AI has make people’s life more convenient and easier. AI can finish certain dangerous and boring work, rather than needing human capitals to work on these things anymore. However, is AI totally beneficial for human beings? And should people totally rely on AI? As AI is widely used in real life, the problems of security, unemployment and ethnics may arouse. 

           The first problem that may come to people’s mind will probably be security problem. In people’s daily transportations, AI is used as auto-driving, auto-parking and other systems in the cars. It may help people to drive more safely and comfortably. However, what may happen if bad people hack into the computer system in the cars? It may cause severe disasters. Bad people can do anything like assassinating someone with just looking like a car accident. And when the system breaks down, people still need their own skills to drive rather than totally depending on AI technology. AI is also used as home robots to do the cleaning and serving work at home. Home robots have lots of sensors and hardwares inside. They are collecting all kinds of data in the room for all the time. There will be serious privacy problems if some people plug virus and trojan into the home robots. Then, the housing robots will just become a hidden bug inside house, with monitoring everything and everyone for all the time. 

           Beside the security problems of using AI in our real life, there will also be the unemployment issues. Although the trend of employment market is changing to technology area, however, the employment in manufacture area is still taking a large portion of the total employment market. If AI gets widely used in the manufacture area and takes the place of human labor force, it will lead to large amount of people losing their job. And due to the lack of college education, these people may not be able to find a job in the technology area easily. It may take quite long time for these people to get employed again. Thus, they have to depend on the government unemployment insurance program, which will put huge stress on the social economy system. It may possibly crash down the society’s economy system and lead to further severe social problems. 

           The third problem of AI will be ethnics problem. AI will be used in medical area in the future. At that time, AI will be the one that diagnose people’s illness and provide treatment advice. But here is the problem. If AI makes a mistake about diagnosing the illness and provide patient with a wrong treatment, who should be responsible for this? Although AI can make diagnosis faster than human beings do and sometimes maybe makes more accurate diagnosis, there is still certain risk to let people fully rely on AI for medication. What people should do may possibly be using AI to assist doctor to make the diagnosis and decide the treatment rather than totally letting AI be the one that makes the decision. People still need human doctors to monitor and supervise the AI. And human doctors are the only one who can take responsibilities for their patients rather than AI does. 

           In conclusion, AI does make people’s life better but it is still necessary for people to depend on their own in life with using AI as an assistant rather than fully depending on AI for living. Otherwise, one day, AI will beat human’s intelligence and human beings will become slaves of AI.  
