	Artificial Intelligence will continue to grow in its influence of our everyday lives. The Stanford 100 Year Study certainly supports this and shares both current and predicted trends for Artificial Intelligence as it relates to eight key domains. While the writers certainly report truthfully about current happenings with AI, the projections they make for the AI’s future are to be scrutinized and challenged.	One of the domains the writers discuss is AI’s roles in employment and the workplace. The writers claim that as AI takes the place of human labor, the cost of goods and services will go down, “effectively making everyone richer” (pg. 39). This statement is not completely invalid. Certainly a computer can be employed at far less the cost of a real human. However, as AI continues to develop in the coming decades, we must remember that there will still be humans behind the computers’ work. AI research and development certainly comes at a cost, and it’s a steep one at that as those qualified in the field make higher wages than the blue collar laborers their work will replace. This cost will certainly be factored into the price of the goods AI produces potentially keeping them at or above their current cost. Hopefully, as time goes on, AI will be more self-sustained and the initial cost of development will factor less into the price of goods and services. A study done by the Economic Policy Institute shows that while productivity increased by 80.4% from 1973 to 2011, the median compensation for workers has only increased by 10.7%. Therefore, it is unlikely that everyone will be made richer as a result of the initial replacement of human labor. Workers replaced by AI will certainly become poorer while those developing AI technologies will reap the true reward.	Another section of the paper discusses AI’s impact on education. The writers propose that AI will continue to “blur the line between formal, classroom education and self-paced, individual learning” (pg. 34). Rather than blur the line between the classroom and individual, it is more likely that the two will become more contrasted. Students are already able to take online courses with little human interaction. These courses provide certificates which are accepted by a multitude of employers. I predict that a greater divide will separate classroom-taught and self-taught individuals. As tuition costs increase, lower income students will study online while higher income students will continue to study in the classroom, an activity which will hold a new kind of social status. In addition, as NPR points out, in a world where computers are taking more and more jobs, it is no longer as beneficial for humans to “memorize facts and figures, or simple rules for problem solving.” Rather we’ll be faced with a push to learn more difficult tasks that AI may not be prepared to teach thus keeping a demand for classroom instruction.	There is great change in store for the future as AI takes center stage, both positively and negatively, in our lives. It’s important that one stays current on AI affairs so he can properly engage in this ever changing field.		