The article goes into detail on the prediction that by 2030 autonomous beings (AI robots/appliances) becoming heavily intertwined in human society. It mentions the possible functions of robots in different domains; transportation, healthcare, homecare to name a few.I agree that AI will play a much greater part in society by the year 2030, for example the possible shift to all forms of transportation becoming autonomous. I however disagree regarding robots taking active positions in more privacy sensitive domains, such as healthcare, education, and even homecare.The thought of a personal robotic maid or a robotic clinical assistant is very interesting, however, as mentioned in the article, these advances are hindered by traditional ideals and fear of change. I believe that by the year 2030 we may possess the technology required for developing and deploying these sorts of robots but we will not have the mindset to do so.AI will take a more subdued approach to integrating with society, such as self-driving cars, autonomous thermostats, and smart appliances. A reason for this, I think, will be jobs. If robots took a more active role in society, many jobs would be lost and unemployment rates would increase significantly. Currency has been around for about 1000 years and 100 years will not be enough to develop a financial system around the takeover of so many jobs by autonomous beings. In addition, humans are, in my opinion, very traditional and enjoy interacting with other humans. This emotional factor would need to be replicated by the robots, especially the ones in healthcare and education, for the switch to AI to be possible. And even with robots capable of emotions, people would be skeptical and prefer actual human contact.The biggest issue surrounding the future of AI is the fact that these systems are not actually intelligent on their own. Implementing AI requires enormous amounts of data which is used to essentially “train” systems to function as intended; machine learning. For many of the outlined uses for AI, to train the machines to function properly, society would have to give up personal and possibly sensitive data. In industries such as healthcare, a doctor is responsible for maintaining a patient’s privacy and secrets. While a robot will surely be able to do the same, no matter how many security measures, a robot or database will always be able to be hacked; leaking of personal information and invasion of privacy. AI systems in financial institutions are under the same concerns as possible breaches would be devastating.These possible information leaks are threats today, however with the massive amount of data required by AI to function properly, one leak could end up exposing a person’s entire life to the public. The process of obtaining the data itself would be an issue as well. The concept of privacy could disappear entirely with cameras and sensors everywhere to monitor and record data.The movement towards AI systems is going to happen. Many of the possibilities outlined by the study, however, will not be implemented in the next 100 years. The sheer amount of data that would be required to train such systems to function properly along with the loss of privacy and security concerns regarding the data will make it very difficult for AI to progress at such a fast pace. 