The first aspect of the study challenged by this essay is the committee’s decision to limit the study’s focus only on a typical North American city. The next aspect of the survey that the essay challenges is about the proliferation of self-driving vehicles.

Focus on North American city:
It is understandable that the study panel is limited in its capacity to conduct an elaborate study on cities and rural areas alike. But my primary challenge is regarding the focus on a city in western world country (North America). In North American cities technology has proliferated into people's lives in many aspects unlike the cities in developing or underdeveloped countries. Moreover, the infrastructure in the American cities is far more advanced than the developing cities. For example, in contrast to American cities, cities in India don't have properly separated lanes in roads (with the exception of intercity freeways). In such contexts, it is unclear how and whether we can expect a self-driving car to be successful. In such cases, what are the technological challenges regarding the algorithm developed or hardware used? A discussion of how unplanned cities without proper infrastructure could prepare itself to reap the benefits of AI in the coming years would have been equally helpful for researchers in such countries.

The proliferation of self-driving vehicles:
The study predicts that self-driving vehicles will proliferate American cities by 2030 and that the number of cars owned will come down. I find these two aspects quite contradicting. The proliferation of these vehicles will result in an increase in the usage of cars;  for example, an underage teen who cannot legally drive a car can now own a car and use it. A person using public mode of transportation to avoid driving for a long time might now prefer to ride in a self-driving car and get some useful work done during the commute. These factors might thus increase the number of cars and thus might lead to more congested roads. 