	As demonstrated by the Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence, the tide of the artificial Intelligent is irresistible. In order to adjust to the new change, people are expected to establish a new way to connect with the machines. The study mainly talks about the AI development in eight areas, including transportation, service robot, education, healthcare, low-resource community, public safety and security, employment, and entertainment, as well as its corresponding influences and challenges. However, I don’t agree with some statements it made in the area of transportation and employment. 	It is hard to deny the progress that the artificial intelligent made in the transportation. Especially that the advances in sensing technology and machine learning have made Google’s autonomous vehicles and Tesla’s semi-autonomous vehicles drive successfully on streets. Self-driving vehicles have definitely brought convenience to the public, and decreased the accidental rate. However, the safety of the self-driving cannot be ensured. Firstly, google autonomous vehicles are tested in a restricted condition. It is possible that they would fail to drive successfully if the weather is bad, as self-driving car is supported by the sensing technology, and when the heavy rain happens to appear, the sensor could be broken, and thus the self-driving car cannot work as expected. In addition to that, if the traffic light is off by accident, those self-driving car will not be able to read the signs with each other and communicate correspondingly.      Even though people consume because of the intrinsic value of the good and service, and the labor weighs a large portion in the costs, it is not appropriate to conclude that with the help of AI innovation, which replaces the human task, the cost of the merchandise goes down, and thus saves people’s money. Firstly, in the perspective of the company, they exist to make profits, at least not to suffer the deficit. The sunk cost to the AI innovation is high by itself, and it is very likely that it costs more for company to install the AI technology than to hire human labor. Moreover, as indicated by the report, huge amount of the job will be replaced by the AI, and thus make a lot of people unemployed, and how could be possible for those people be rich without the income.	Moreover, as stated in the study, like the automation replaces the routine manufacturing job, artificial intelligent will replace the cognitive human job. Artificial intelligent will one day make a large portion of people lose their jobs. As a consequence, the income disparity will increase dramatically, just like the gap between the wealth and the poor has already increased in the past few years with the development of technology. Once the phenomenon of polarization exacerbated, hundreds of social problems will arise. Even though the social debate on the distribution of the profits made by the AI technology will be discussed by ahead of the time, once the technology replaces human completely in the workspace as stated in the study, people who own the machine will dominate the social fortune, and thus increase wealth disparity. 