Personalize and Information Redundancy
The article provides an AI future full of confidence, and distributes responsibilities of negative influences to all other stakeholders. I believe AI is changing our world and will continue to change it in the future, but I have to admit sometimes it makes life harder instead of more convenient. One of the most obvious troubles, which is mentioned a lot of times proudly in the article, is the personalization. We are just trying so hard to make AI provide more personal service, including personal education, personal customer service, personal entertainment etc. But I would like to point out one thing I am worrying is the information redundancy going through with personalization.
One example comes from a few days before. I was trying to reach out an Internet service for my apartment I just moved in. I thought it was all about a call, however, it takes me two calls about forty minutes each. Every time it takes me a long time to find the real customer service, which is a guy. I have to talk with a  robot and listen it’s tedious slowly voices, and if I happened to speak something wrong or push the wrong button, I have to start over and listen to the voice again. This makes me feel that we are going too far in making AI personalize. The information redundancy can happen at any time when we are trying to make the services personalize. The article says AI will make education more focus towards different students, and I think it is totally horrible. I may have to go through a bunch of tests before reach the knowledge, which really makes sense to me, even though, I still cannot get answers to some questions because AI think I should not ask. I do not think AI can be a right tool to answer questions or categorize people. 
One reason I think AI can never achieve personalization is that our brains are so complex. As a person, one can be versatile, which means one can appreciate art, music, and also math, philosophy. It is not hard for AI to be versatile, but it is hard to build connections within objects. A people in favor of art have how much connection with he or she's favor of music? Peoples’ connections between objects have a complex relationship with emotions and personalities, and that is why Hollywood movies would not come true or even possible in the future as the article claims. However, they are trying to make products meet people’s personality, which is a bad try in my perspective.
My advice is to leave the options there. Steve Jobs said, “people don’t know what they want until you show it to them”. I would say people’s preference is always undetectable, even by themselves. Instead of asking a lot of questions and deal with huge amount of data analysis to figure out what people want to do or want to have, it is always worth to spend more time on our imagination, and to make it come true. Human should have more confidence in themselves, what we like and what we want is most likely the major preference of the public. I guess the one who develops the automatic customer service of the phone never try to use it achieve all services, and calculate the time waste through it. What if we set the real person for a direct choice and maybe a long line, but they can always choose automatic service?
