The report “Artificial intelligence and life in 2030” by the 2015 study panel provides a commendable investigation on the current status of Artificial intelligence and the future prospects in the field. However, the report has failed in having a holistic view in the domains of employment, entertainment and transport that could hinder the development of AI.Primarily, the report claims that AI would replace tasks rather than jobs in the near future and create new types of jobs. Moreover, the report also says that the future jobs that would emerge are harder to imagine in advance and the existing jobs are likely be lost. However, the report fails to give complete details about the jobs that would be lost and, whether the people who would lose their employment are qualified to take up the new jobs that would be created in the future. In the current scenario, most of the tasks in a job are carried out by people and automation would definitely lead to loss of employment/ decreased wages. This would in turn lead to lower standards of living which is contrary to the primary aspect of AI in providing better standards of living. Unless clear picture of the new job opportunities and the situation of workers who would lose their jobs are given, it is highly improbable to gain people’s trust in deploying AI for doing tasks.AI has bought up several sophistications and advancements in the field of entertainment. The report has considered only the positive aspects and has stated that Children often appear to be genuinely happier playing at home with their devices rather than playing outside with friends. When viewed blindly the statement seems to be appropriate. However, looking deep would help to realize that AI has been hindering the growth of children to a greater extent. Children might be happy playing with their devices, but this has got adverse effects. It has been shown in several researches that children’s physical activity plays a vital role in their development. On the same note, it has been observed that parents have started to restrict their children from using their devices. Unless, parents get convinced on how AI could help the children to grow mentally and physically, the future of AI seems to be bleak in the domain of children entertainment.In the field of transportation, the report has stated that cars will become better drivers than people and people will start owning fewer cars and live farther from work, thus creating a new urban organization. This argument seems to be completely unwarranted. If the cars are automated, there is no assurance that people would stay further from the workplace. This is primarily because automation of cars could not reduce the distance travelled. There would be no change in the total travel time. To reduce transportation time, people would prefer to stay near their workplaces. Furthermore, the report has claimed that the people would start using public modes of transport when the transportation vehicles are automated. In most underdeveloped and developing countries, public mode of transport is the  primary means of transport providing huge employment opportunities. Automating in those countries would be huge challenge and requires more time frame than expected in comparison with the developed countries.Though, the report is good at presenting the development of AI over the years, it has made several unstated assumptions in deciding the future prospects of AI in few fields as discussed above. Such issues should be considered on a serious note to ensure substantial development of AI. 